preface the insects homer by maurice maeterlinck translators note crapter i the blackbellied tarantula ii the banded epeira iii the narbonne lycosa io iv the narbonne lycosa the burrow v the narbonne lycosa the family vi the narbonne lycosa the climbinginstinct i i vii the spiders exodus vin the crab spider contents chapter page ix the garden spiders building the web x the garden spiders my neigh bour xi the garden spiders the lime snare xii the garden spiders the tele graphwire xni the garden spiders pairing and hunting xiv the garden spiders the ques tion of property xv the labyrinth spider o xvi the clotho spider appendix the geometry of the epeiras web range and scrignan the latter a lit tie provencal village that should be as widely celebrated as maillane have of late years rendered honour to a man whose brow deserves to be girt with a double and ra diant crown but fame  at least that which is not the true nor the great fame but her il legitimate sister and which creates more noise than durable work in the morning and even ing papers  fame is often forgetful negli gent behindhand or unjust and the crowd is almost ignorant of the name of j h fabre who is one of the most profound and inven tive scholars and also one of the purest writers and i was going to add one of the finest poets of the century that is just past maillane is the birthplace of mistral the proven poettranslators note j h fabre as some few people know is the author of half a score of wellfilled vol umes in which under the title of souvenirs entomologiques he has set down the results of fifty years of observation study and exper iment on the insects that seem to us the best known and the most familiar different species of wasps and wild bees a few gnats flies beetles and caterpillars in a word all those vague unconscious rudimentary and almost nameless little lives which surround us on every side and which we contemplate with eyes that are amused but already thinking of other things when we open our window to welcome the first hours of spring or when we go into the gardens or the fields to bask in the blue summer zy we take up at random one of these bulky volumes and naturally expect to find first of all the very learned and rather dry lists of names the very fastidious and exceedingly quaint specifications of those huge dusty graveyards of which all the entomological treatises that we have read so far seem almost wholly to consist we therefore open the book without zest and without unreasonable expectations and forthwith from between the open leaves there rises and unfolds itself without hesitation without interruption and almost without remission to the end of the four thousand pages the most extraordinary of tragic fairy plays that it is possible for the human imagination not to create or to con ceive but to admit and to acclimatize within itself indeed there is no question here of the human imagination the insect does not be long to our world the other animals the plants even notwithstanding their dumb life and the great secrets which they cherish do not seem wholly foreign to us in spite of all wc feel a certain earthly brotherhood in them they often surprise and amaze our intelligence but do not utterly upset it there is something on the other hand about the insect that does not seem to belong to the habits the ethics the psychology of our globe one would be inclined to say that the insect comes from another planet more mon strous more energetic more insane more atrocious more infernal than our own one would think that it was born of some comet that had lost its course and died demented in space in vain does it seize upon life with an authority a fecundity unequalled here below we cannot accustom ourselves to the idea that it is a thought of that nature of whom we fondly believe ourselves to be the privileged children and probably the ideal to which all the earths efforts tend only the infinitely small disconcerts us still more greatly but what in reality is the infinitely small other than an insect which our eyes do not see there is no doubt in this astonishment and lack of understanding a certain instinctive and profound uneasiness inspired by those existences incomparably betterarmed better equipped than our own by those creatures made up of a sort of compressed energy and activity in whom we suspect our most myste rious adversaries our ultimate rivals and perhaps our successors but it is time under the conduct of an ad mirable guide to penetrate behind the scenes of our fairy play and to study at close quarters the actors and supemumerariesi loathsome or magnificent as the case may be grotesque or sinister heroic or appalling genial or stupid and almost always improbable and unintel ligible and here to begin with taking the first that comes is one of those individuals fre quent in the south where we can see it prowl ing around the abundant manna which the mule scatters heedlessly along the white roads and the stony paths i mean the sacred scarab of the egyptians or more simply the dungbeetle the brother of our northern geotrupes a big coleopteron all clad in black whose mission in this world is to shape the more savoury parts of the prize into an enormous ball which he must next roll to the subterranean diningroom where the incred ible digestive adventure is to take its course but destiny jealous of all undiluted bliss be fore admitting him to that spot of sheer delight imposes upon the grave and probably sententious beetle tribulations without num ber which are nearly always complicated by the arrival of an untoward parasite hardly has he begun by dint of great ef forts of his frontal shield and bandy legs to roll the toothsome sphere backwards when an indelicate colleague who has been awaiting the completion of the work appears and hypo critically offers his services the other well knows that in this case help and services besides being quite unnecessary will soon mean partition and dispossession and he ac cepts the enforced collaboration without en thusiasm but so that their respective rights may be clearly marked the legal owner in variably retains his original place that is to say he pushes the ball with his forehead whereas the compulsory guest on the other side pulls it towards him and thus it jogs along between the two gossips amid inter minable vicissitudes flurried falls grotesque tumbles till it reaches the place chosen to receive the treasure and to become the ban quetinghall on arriving the owner sets about diggng out the refectory while the sponger pretends to go innocently to sleep on the top of the bolus the excavation be comes visibly wider and deeper and soon the first dungbeetle dives bodily into it this is the moment for which the cunning aux iliary was waiting he nimbly scrambles down from the blissful eminence and push ing it with all the energy that a bad con science gives strives to gain the offing but the other who is rather distrustful inter rupts his laborious excavations looks over board sees the sacrilegious rape and leaps out of the hole caught in the act the shame less and dishonest partner makes untold ef forts to play upon the others credulity turns round and round the inestimable orb and embracing it and propping himself against it with fraudulent heroic exertions pretends to be frantically supporting it on a nonexistent slope the two expostulate with each other in silence gesticulate wildly with their mandibles and tarsi and then with one accord bring back the ball to the burrow it is pronounced sufficiently spacious and comfortable they introduce the treasure they close the entrance to the corridor and now in the propitious darkness and the warm damp where the magnificent stercoral globe alone holds sway the two reconciled mess mates sit down face to face then far from the light and the cares of day and in the great silence of the hypogeous shade solemnly commences the most fabulous ban quet whereof abdominal imagination ever evoked the absolute beatitudes for two whole months they remain clois tered and with their paunches proportion ately hollowing out the inexhaustible sphere definite archetypes and sovereign symbols of the pleasures of the table and the gaiety of the belly they eat without stopping without interrupting themselves for a second day or night and while they gorge steadily with a movement perceptible and constant as that of a clock at the rate of three millimetres a minute an endless unbroken ribbon unwinds and stretches itself behind them fixing the memory and recording the hours days and weeks of the prodigious feast after the dungbeetle that dolt of the company let us greet also in the order of the coleoptera the model household of the min otaurus typhaus which is pretty wellknown and extremely gentle in spite of its dreadful name the female digs a huge burrow which is often more than a yard and a half deep and which consists of spiral staircases landings passages and numerous chambers ihe male loads the earth on the three pronged fork that surmounts his head and carries it to the entrance of the conjugal dwelling next he goes into the fields in search of the harmless droppings left by the sheep takes them down to the first storey of the crypt and reduces them to flour with his trident while the mother right at the bottom collects the flour and kneads it into huge cylin drical loaves which will presently be food for the little ones for three months until the provisions are deemed sufficient the unfortu nate husband without taking nourishment of any kind exhausts himself in this gigantic woric at last his task accomplished feeling his end at hand so as not to encumber the house with his wretched remains he spends his last strength in leaving the burrow drags himself laboriously along and lonely and re signed knowing that he is henceforth good for nothing goes and dies far away among the stones here on another side are some rather strange caterpillars the processionaries which are not rare and as it happens a single string of them five or six yards long has just climbed down from my umbrella is pines and is at this moment unfolding itself in the walks of my garden carpeting the ground traversed with transparent silk ac cording to the custom of the race to say nothing of the meteorological apparatus of unparalleled delicacy which they carry on their backs these caterpillars as everybody knows have this remarkable quality that they travel only in a troop one after the other like breughels blind men or those of the parable each of them obstinately indissolubly follow ing its leader so much so that our author having one morning disposed the file on the edge of a large stone vase thus closing the circuit for seven whole days during an atro cious week amidst cold hunger and un speakable weariness the unhappy troop on its tragic round without rest respite or mercy pursued the pitiless circle until death overtook it but i see that our heroes are infinitely too numerous and that we must not linger over our descriptions we may at most in enu merating the more important and familiar bestow on each of them a hurried epithet in the manner of old homer shall i mention for instance the leucospis a parasite of the masonbee who to slay his brothers and sisters in their cradle arms himself with a horn helmet and a barbed breastplate which he doffs immediately after the extermination the safeguard of a hideous right of primo geniture shall i tell of the marvellous anatomical knowledge of the tachytes of the cerceris of the ammophila of the lan guedocian sphex who according as they wish to paralyze or to kill their prey or their adversary know exactly without ever blunder ing which nervecentre to strike with their sting or their mandibles shall i speak of the art of the eumenes who transforms her stronghold into a complete museum adorned with shells and grains of translucent quartz of the magnificent metamorphosis of the pachytilus cinarescens of the musical in strument owned by the cricket whose bow numbers one hundred and fifty triangular prisms that set in motion simultaneously the four dulcimers of the elytron shall i sing the fairylike birth of the nymphs of the anthophagus a transparent monster with a buifs snout that seems carved out of a block of crystal would you behold the fleshfly the common bluebottle daughter of the mag got as she issues from the earth listen to our author she disjoints her head into two movable halves which each distended with its great red eye by turns separate and reunite in the intervening space a large glassy hernia rises and disappears disappears and rises when the two halves move asunder with one eye forced back to the right and the other to the left it is as though the insect were split ting its brainpan in order to expel the con tents then the hernia rises blunt at the end and swollen into a great knob next the forehead closes and the hernia retreats leav ing visible only a kind of shapeless muzzle in short a frontal pouch with deep pulsations momentarily renewed becomes the instru ment of deliverance the pestle wherewith the newlyhatched dipteron bruises the sand and causes it to crumble gradually the legs push the rubbish back and the insect advances so much towards the surface and monster after monster passes such as the imagination of bosch or callot never conceived the larva of the rosechafer which though it have legs under its belly always travels on its back the bluewinged locust unluckier still than the fleshfly and possessing nothing wherewith to perforate the soil to escape from the tomb and reach the light but a cervical bladder a viscous blister and the empusa who with her curved ab domen her great projecting eyes her legs with kneepieces armed with cleavers her hal berd her abnormally tall mitre would cer tainly be the most devilish goblin that ever walked the earth if beside her the praying mantis were not so frightful that her mere aspect deprives her victims of their power of movement when she assumes in front of them what the entomologists have termed the spectral attitude one cannot mention even casually the numberless industries  nearly all of absorb ing interest  exercised among the rocks un der the ground in the walls on the branches the grass the flowers the fruits and down to the very bodies of the subjects studied for we sometimes find a treble superposition of parasites as in the oilbeetles and we see the maggot itself the sinister guest at the last feast of all feed some thirty brigands with its substance among the hymenoptera which represent the most intellectual class in the world which we are studying the buildingtalents of our wonderful domestic bee are certainly equal in other orders of architecture by those of more than one wild and solitary bee and not ably by the megachile or leafcutter a lit tle insect which is not all outside show and which to house its eggs manufactures honey pots formed of a multitude of disks and el lipses cut with mathematical precision from the leaves of certain trees for lack of space i am unable to my great regret to quote the beautiful and pellucid pages which j h fabre with his usual conscientiousness de votes to the exhaustive study of this admirable work nevertheless since the occasion offers let us listen to his own words though it be but for a moment and in regard to a single detail with the oval pieces the question changes what model has the megachile when cut ting into fine ellipses the delicate material of the robinia what ideal pattern guides her scissors what measure dictates the dimen sions one would like to think of the insect as a living compass capable of tracing an elliptic curve by a certain natural inflexion of the body even as our arm traces a circle by swinging from the shoulder a blind mech anism the mere outcome of her organiza tion would in that case be responsible for her geometry this explanation would tempt me if the oval pieces of large dimensions were not accompanied by much smaller but likewise oval pieces to fill the empty spaces a compass which changes its radius of itself and alters the degree of curvature according to the exigencies of a plan appears to me an instrument somewhat difficult to believe in there must be something better than that the circular pieces of the lid suggest it to us if by the mere flexion inherent in her structure the leafcutter succeeds in cutting out ovals how does she manage to cut out rounds can we admit the presence of other wheels in the machinery for the new pattern so different in shape and size however the real point of the difficulty does not lie there those rounds for the most part fit the mouth of the bottle with almost exact preci sion when the cell is finished the bee flies hundreds of yards further to make the lid she arrives at the leaf from which the disk is to be cut what picture what recollection has she of the pot to be covered why none at all she has never seen it she works underground in profound darkness at the utmost she can have the indications of touch not actual indications of course for the pot is not there but past indications ineffective in a work of precision and yet the disk must be of a fixed diameter if it were too large it would not fit in if too small it would close badly it would smother the egg by sliding down on the honey how shall it be given its correct dimensions without a pattern the bee does not hesitate for a moment she cuts out her disk with the same rapidity which she would display in detach ing any shapeless lobe just useful for closing and that disk without further measurement is of the right size to fit the pot let whoso will explain this geometry which in my opinion is inexplicable even when we allow for memory begotten of touch and sight let us add that the author has calculated that to form the cells of a kindred mega chile the silky megachile exactly of these ellipses and disks would be required and they must all be collected and shaped in the course of an existence that lasts a few weeks who would imagine that the pentatomida on the other hand the poor and evilsmelling bug of the woods has invented a really ex traordinary apparatus wherewith to leave the egg and first let us state that this egg is a marvellous little box of snowy whiteness which our author thus describes the microscope discovers a surface en graved with dents similar to those of a thimble and arranged with exquisite sym metry at the top and bottom of the cylin dcr is a wide belt of a dead black on the sides a large white zone with four big black spots evenly distributed the lid surrounded by snowy cilia and encircled with white at the edge swells into a black cap with a white knot in the centre altogether a dismal burial urn with the sudden contrast between the dead black and the fleecy white the funeral pottery of the ancient etruscans would have found a magnificent model here the little bug whose forehead is too soft covers her head to raise the lid of the box with a mitre formed of three triangular rods which is always at the bottom of the egg at the moment of delivery her limbs being sheathed like those of a mummy she has nothing wherewith to put her tringles in motion except the pulsations produced by the rhythmic flow of blood in her skull and act ing after the manner of a piston the rivets of the lid gradually give way and as soon as the insect is free she lays aside her mechanical helmet another species of bug the reduvius per sonatus which lives mostly in lumberrooms where it lies hidden in the dust has invented a still more astonishing system of hatching here the lid of the egg is not riveted as m the case of the pentatomidae but simply glued at the moment of liberation the lid rises and we see a spherical vesicle emerge from the shell and gradually expand like a soap bubble blown through a straw driven further and further back by the extension of this bladder the lid falls then the bomb bursts in other words the blister swollen beyond its capacity of resistance rips at the top this envelope which is an extremely tenuous membrane generally remains clinging to the edge of the orifice where it forms a high white rim at other times the explosion loosens it and flings it outside the shell in those con ditions it is a dainty cup half spherical with torn edges lengthened out below into a deli cate winding stalk now how is this miraculous explosion pro duced j h fabre assumes that very slowly as the little animal takes shape and grows this bladdershaped reser voir receives the products of the work of respiration performed under the cover of the outer membrane instead of being expelled through the eggshell the carbonic acid the incessant result of the vital oxidization is accumulated in this sort of gasometer inflates and distends it and presses upon the lid when the insect is ripe for hatching a super added activity in the respiration completes the inflation which perhaps has been prepar ing since the first evolution of the germ at last yielding to the increasing pressure of the gaseous bladder the lid becomes unsealed the chick in its shell has its airchamber the young reduvius has its bomb of carbonic acid it frees itself in the act of breathing one would never weary of dipping eagerly into these inexhaustible treasures we im agine for instance that from seeing cob webs so frequently displayed in all manner of places we possess adequate notions of the genius and methods of our familiar spiders far from it the realities of scientific obser vation call for an entire volume crammed with revelations of which we had no concep tion i will simply name at random the symmetrical arches of the clotho spiders nest the astonishing funicular flight of the young of our garden spider the divingbell of the water spider the live telephonewire which connects the web with the leg of the cross spider hidden in her parlour and in forms her whether the vibration of her toils is due to the capture of a prey or a caprice of the wind it is impossible therefore short of having unlimited space at ones disposal to do more than touch as it were with the tip of the phrases upoa the miracles of maternal in stinct which moreover are confounded with those of the higher manufactures and form the bright centre of the insects psychology one would in the samie way require several chapters to convey a summary idea of the nuptial rites which constitute the quaintest and most fabulous episodes of these new arabian nights the male of the spanishfly for instance begins by frenziedly beating his spouse with his abdomen and his feet after which with his arms crossed and quivering he remains long in ecstasy the newlywedded osmiae clap their mandibles terribly as though it were a matter rather of devouring each other on the other hand the largest of our moths the great peacock who is the size of a bat when drunk with love finds his mouth so completely atrophied that it becomes no more than a vague shadow but nothing equals the marriage of the green grasshop per of which i cannot speak here for it is doubtful whether even the latin language possesses the words needed to describe it as it should be described all said the marriage customs are dread ful and contrary to that which happens in every other world here it is the female of the pair that stands for strength and intelli gence and also for cruelty and tyranny which appear to be their inevitable consequence almost every wedding ends in the violent and immediate death of the husband often the bride begins by eating a certain number of suitors the archetype of these fantastic unions could be supplied by the languedo cian scorpions who as we know carry lobsterclaws and a long tail supplied with a sting the prick of which is eictremcly dan gerous they have a prelude to the festival in the shape of a sentimental stroll claw in claw then motionless with fingers still gripped they contemplate each other bliss fully interminably day and night pass over their ecstasy while they remain face to face petrified with admiration next the foreheads come together and touch the mouths  if we can give the name of mouth to the monstrous orifice that opens between the claws  are joined in a sort of kiss after which the union is accomplished the male is transfixed with a mortal sting and the ter rible spouse crunches and gobbles him up with gusto but the mantis the ecstatic insect with the arms always raised in an attitude of supreme invocation the horrible mantis religiosa or praying mantis does better still she eats her husbands for the insatiable creature sometimes consumes seven or eight in succes sion while they strain her passionately to their heart her inconceivable kisses devour not metaphorically but in an appallingly real fashion the illfated choice of her soul or her stomach she begins with the head goes down to the thorax nor stops till she comes to the hindlegs which she deems too tough she then pushes away the unfortu nate remains while a new lover who was quietly awaiting the end of the monstrous banquet heroically steps forward to undergo the same fate j h fabre is indeed the revealer of this new world for strange as the admission may seem at a time when we think that we know all that surrounds us most of those insects mi nutely described in the vocabularies learnedly classified and barbarously christened had hardly ever been observed in real life or thor oughly investigated in all the phases of their brief and evasive appearances he has devoted to surprising their little secrets which are the reverse of our greatest mysteries fifty years of a solitary existence misunderstood poor often very near to penury but lit up every day by the joy which a truth brings which is the greatest of all human joys petty truths i shall be told those presented by the habits of a spider or a grasshopper there are no petty truths today there is but one truth whose lookingglass to our uncertain eyes seems broken though its every fragment whether reflecting the evolution of a planet or the flight of a bee contains the supreme law and these truths thus discovered had the good fortune to be grasped by a mind which knew how to understand what they them selves can but ambiguously express to inter pret what they are obliged to conceal and at the same time to appreciate the shimmering beauty almost invisible to the majority of mankind that shines for a moment around all that exists especially around that which still remains very close to nature and has hardly left its primeval obscurity to make of these long annals the generous and delightful masterpiece that they are and not the monotonous and arid register of little descriptions and insignificant acts that they might have been various and so to speak conflicting gifts were needed to the patience the precision the scientific minute ness the protean and practical ingenuity the energy of a darwin in the face of the un known to the faculty of expressing what has to be expressed with order clearness and cer tainty the venerable anchorite of scrignan adds many of those qualities which are not to be acquired certain of those innate good poetic virtues which cause his sure and supple prose devoid of artificial ornament and yet adorned with simple and as it were uninten tional charm to take its place among the ex cellent and lasting prose of the day prose of the kind that has its own atmosphere in which we breathe gratefully and tranquilly and which we find only around masterpieces lastly there was needed  and this was not the least requirement of the work  a mind ever ready to cope with the riddles which among those little objects rise up at every step as enormous as those which fill the skies and perhaps more numerous more im perious and more strange as though nature had here given a freer scope to her last wishes and an easier outlet to her secret thoughts he shrinks from none of those boundless problems which are persistently put to us by all the inhabitants of that tiny world where mysteries are heaped up in a denser and more bewildering fashion than in any other he thus meets and faces turn by turn the re doubtable questions of instinct and intelli gence of the origin of species of the harmony or the accidents of the universe of the life lavished upon the abysses of death without counting the no less vast but so to speak more human problems which among infinite others are inscribed within the range if not within the grasp of our intelligence parthenogenesis the prodigious geometry of the wasps and bees the logarithmic spiral of the snail the antennary sense the miracu lous force which in absolute isolation with out the possible introduction of anything from the outside increases the volume of the minotaurus egg tenfold where it lies and during seven to nine months nourishes with an invisible and spiritual food not the leth argy but the active life of the scorpion and of the young of the lycosa and the clotho spider he does not attempt to explain them by one of those generallyacceptable theories such as that of evolution which merely shifts the ground of the difficulty and which i may mention in passing emerges from these volumes in a somewhat sorry plight after being sharply confronted with incontestable facts waiting for chance or a god to enlighten us he is able in the presence of the un known to preserve that great religious and attentive silence which is dominant in the best minds of the day there are those who say now that you have reaped a plentiful harvest of details you should follow up an alysis with synthesis and generalize the origin of instinct in an allembracing view to these he replies with the humble and magnificent loyalty that illumines all his work because i have stirred a few grains of sand on the shore am i in a position to know the depths of the ocean life has unfathomable secrets human knowledge will be erased from the archives of the world before we possess the last word that the gnat has to say to us success is for the loud talkers the self convinced dogmatists everything is admitted on condition that it be noisily proclaimed let us throw off this sham and recognize that in reality we know nothing about anything if things were probed to the bottom scien tifically nature is a riddle without a definite solution to satisfy mans curiosity hypoth esis follows on hypothesis the theoretical rubbishheap accumulates and truth ever eludes us to know how not to know might well be the last word of wisdom evidently this is hoping too little in the frightful pit in the bottomless funnel where in whirl all those contradictory facts which are resolved in obscurity we know just as much as our cavedwelling ancestors but at least we know that we do not know we survey the dark faces of all the riddles we try to estimate their number to classify their varying degrees of dimness to obtain an idea of their places and extent that already is something pending the day of the first gleams of light in any case it means doing in the presence of the mysteries all that the most upright intelligence can do today and that is what the author of this incomparable iliad does with more confidence than he professes he gazes at them attentively he wears out his life in surprising their most minute se crets he prepares for them in his thoughts and in ours the field necessary for their evo lutions he increases the consciousness of his ignorance in proportion to their importance and learns to understand more and more that they are incomprehsible maurice maeterlinick the following essays have been selected from the ten volumes composing the souvenirs entomologiques although a good deal of henri fabres masterpiece has been published in english none of the articles treating of spiders has been issued before with the excep tion of that forming chapter ii of the pres ent volume the banded epeira which first appeared in the english review the rest are new to england and america the fabre books already published are insect life translated by the author of made moiselle mori macmillan co the life and love of the insect translated by myself macmillan co and social life in the insect world translated by mr bernard miall century co refer ences to the above volumes will be found whenever necessary in the footnotes to the present edition for the rest i have tried not to overburden my version with notes and in view of this i have as far as possible simplified the scien tific terms that occur in the text in so doing i know that i have but followed the wishes of the author who never wearies of protest ing against the barbarous terminology fa voured by his brothernaturalists the mat ter became even more urgent in english than in any of the latin languages and i readily agreed when it was pointed out to me that in a work essentially intended for general read ing there was no purpose in speaking of a coleopteron when the word beetle was to hand in cases where an insect had inevitably to be mentioned by its greek or latin name a note is given explaining in the fewest words the nature of the insect in question i have to thank my friend m maurice maeterlinck for the stately preface which he has contributed to this volume and mr mar maduke langdale and miss frances rodwell for the generous assistance which they have given me in the details of my work and i am also greatly indebted to mr w s graff baker for his invaluable help with the mathe matical difficulties that confronted me in the translation of the appendix alexander teixeira de mattos chelsea id october the spider has a bad name to most of us she represents an odious noxious ani mal which every one hastens to crush under foot against this summary verdict the ob server sets the beasts industry its talent as a weaver its wiliness in the chase its tragic nup tials and other characteristics of great inter est yes the spider is well worth studying apart from any scientific reasons but she is said to be poisonous and that is her crime and the primary cause of the repugnance where with she inspires us poisonous i agree if by that we understand that the animal is armed with two fangs which cause the immediate death of the little victims which it catches but there is a wide difference between killing a midge and harming a man however imme diate in its effects upon the insect entangled in the fatal web the spiders poison is not serious for us and causes less inconvenience than a gnatbite that at least is what we can safely say as regards the great majority of the spiders of our regions nevertheless a few are to be feared and foremost among these is the malmignatte the terror of the corsican peasantry i have seen her settle in the furrows lay out her web and rush boldly at insects larger than herself i have admired her garb of black velvet spec kled with carminered above all i have heard most disquieting stories told about her around ajaccio and bonifacio her bite is re puted very dangerous sometimes mortal the countryman declares this for a fact and the doctor does not always dare deny it in the neighbourhood of pujaud nor far from avig non the harvesters speak with dread of theridion lugubre first observed by leon dufour in the catalonian mountains accord ing to them her bite would lead to serious ac cidents the italians have bestowed a bad reputation on the tarantula who produces convulsions and frenzied dances in the person stung by her to cope with tarantism the name given to the disease that follows on the bite of the italian spider you must have re course to music the only efficacious remedy a small or moderates spider found among foliage  translators note so they tell us special tunes have been noted those quickest to afford relief there is medi cal choreography medical music and have we not the tarantella a lively and nimble dance bequeathed to us perhaps by the heal ing art of the calabrian peasant must we take these queer things seriously or laugh at them from the little that i have seen i hesitate to pronounce an opinion nothing tells us that the bite of the taran tula may not provoke in weak and very im pressionable people a nervous disorder which music will relieve nothing tells us that a pro fuse perspiration resulting from a very ener getic dance is not likely to diminish the dis comfort by diminishing the cause of the ail ment so far from laughing i reflect and en quire when the calabrian peasant talks to me of his tarantula the pujaud reaper of his theridion lugubre the corsican husbandman of his malmignatte those spiders might easily deserve at least partly their terrible reputation the most powerful spider in my district the blackbellied tarantula will presently give us something to think about in this con nection it is not my business to discuss a medical point i interest myself especially in matters of instinct but as the poison fangs play a leading part in the huntresss man oeuvres of war i shall speak of their effects by the way the habits of the tarantula her ambushes her artifices her methods of killing her prey these constitute my subject i will preface it with an account by leon dufour one of those accounts in which i used to de light and which did much to bring me into closer touch with the insect the wizard of the landes tells us of the ordinary taran tula that of the calabrias observed by him in spain lycosa tarantula by preference inhabits open places dry arid uncultivated places exposed to the sun she lives generally  at least when fullgrown  in underground pas sages regular burrows which she digs for herself these burrows are cylindrical they are often an inch in diameter and run into the ground to a depth of more than a foot but they are not perpendicular the inhabitant of this gut proves that she is at the same l on dufour was an army surgeon who served with distinction in several campaigns and subse quently practised as a doctor in the landes he attained great eminence as a naturalist  translators note time a skilful hunter and n able engineer it was a question for her not only of con structing a deep retreat that could hide her from the pursuit of her foes she also had to set up her observatory whence to watch for her prey and dart out upon it the taran tula provides for every contingency the underground passage in fact begins by being vertical but at four or five inches from the surface it bends at an obtuse angle forms a horizontal turning and then becomes perpen dicular once more it is at the elbow of this tunnel that the tarantula posts herself as a vigilant sentry and does not for a moment lose sight of the door of her dwelling it was there that at the period when i was hunting her i used to see those eyes gleaming like diamonds bright as a cats eyes in the dark the outer orifice of the tarantulas bur row is usually surmounted by a shaft con structed throughout by herself it is a gen uine work of architecture standing as much as an inch above the ground and sometimes two inches in diameter so that it is wider than the burrow itself this last circum stance which seems to have been calculated by the industrious spider lends itself admir ably to the necessary extension of the legs at the moment when the prey is to be se the shaft is composed mainly of bits of dry wood joined by a little clay and so artistically laid one above the other that they form the scaffolding of a straight column the inside of which is a hollow cylinder the solidity of this tubular building of this outwork is ensured above all by the fact that it is lined upholstered within with a texture woven by the lycosas spinnerets and continued throughout the interior of the burrow it is easy to imagine how useful this cleverly manufactured lining must be for preventing landslip or warping for maintaining clean liness and for helping her claws to scale the fortress i hinted that this outwork of the burrow was not there invariably as a matter of fact i have often come across tarantulas holes without a trace of it perhaps because it had been accidentally destroyed by the weather or because the lycosa may not al the tarantula is a lycosa or wolf spider fabres tarantula the blackbellied tarantula is identical with the narbonne lycosa under which name the description is continued in chapters iii to vi all of which were written at a considerably later date than the present chapter  translators note ways light upon the proper buildingmaterials or lastly because architectural talent is pos sibly declared only in individuals that have reached the final stage the period of per fection of their physical and intellectual development one thing is certain that i have had numerous opportunities of seeing these shafts these outworks of the tarantulas abode they remind me on a larger scale of the tubes of certain caddisworms the arachnid had more than one object in view in constructing them she shelters her retreat from the floods she protects it from the fall of foreign bodies which swept by the wind might end by ob structing it lastly she uses it as a snare by offering the flies and other insects whereon she feeds a projecting point to settle on who shall tell us all the wiles employed by this clever and daring huntress let us now say something about my rather diverting tarantulahunts the best season for them is the months of may and june the first time that i lighted on this spiders burrows and discovered that they were inhabited by seeing her come to a point on the first floor of her dwelling  the elbow which i have mentioned  i thought that i must attack her by main force and pursue her relentlessly in order to capture her i spent whole hours in opening up the trench with a knife a foot long by two inches wide with out meeting the tarantula i renewed the operation in other burrows always with the same want of success i really wanted a pick axe to achieve my object but i was too far from any kind of house i was obliged to change my plan of attack and i resorted to craft necessity they say is the mother of invention it occurred to me to take a stalk topped with its spikelet by way of a bait and to rub and move it gently at the orifice of the burrow i soon saw that the lycosas at tention and desires were roused attracted by the bait she came with measured steps towards the spikelet i withdrew it in good time a little outside the hole so as not to leave the animal time for reflexion and the spider suddenly with a rush darted out of her dwelling of which i hastened to close the entrance the tarantula bewildered by her unaccustomed liberty was very awkward in evading my attempts at capture and i com pelled her to enter a paper bag which i closed without delay sometimes suspecting the trap or per haps less pressed by hunger she would remain coy and motionless at a slight distance from the threshold which she did not think it oppor tune to cross her patience outlasted mine in that case i employed the following tac tics after making sure of the lycosas posi tion and the direction of the tunnel i drove a knife into it on the slant so as to take the animal in the rear and cut off its retreat by stopping up the burrow i seldom failed in my attempt especially in soil that was not stony in these critical circumstances either the tarantula took fright and deserted her lair for the open or else she stubbornly re mained with her back to the blade i would then give a sudden jerk to the knife which flung both the earth and the lycosa to a distance enabling me to capture her by employing this huntingmethod i sometimes caught as many as fifteen tarantulas within the space of an hour in a few cases in which the tarantula was under no misapprehension as to the trap which i was setting for her i was not a lit tie surprised when i pushed the stalk far enough down to twist it round her hiding place to sec her play with the spikelet more or less contemptuously and push it away with her legs without troubling to retreat to the back of her lair the apulian peasants according to baglivis account also hunt the tarantula by imitating the humming of an insect with an oatstalk at the entrance to her burrow i quote the passage ruricola nostri quando eas captare vo lunt ad illorum latibula accedunt tenuisque avenacea fistula sonum apum murmuri non absimilem modulantur quo audito ferox exit tarentula ut muscas vel alia hujus modi insecta quorum murmur esse putat capiat captatur tamen ista a rustico insidiatore the tarantula so dreadful at first sight especially when we are filled with the idea giorgio baglivi professor of anatomy and medicine at rome  translators note when our husbandmen wish to catch them they ap proach their hidingplaces and play on a thin grass pipe makinff a sound not unlike the humming of bees hear ing which the tarantula rushes out fiercely that she may catch the flies or other insects of this kmd whose buzzing she thinks it to be but she herself is caught by her rustic trapper that her bite is dangerous so fierce in appear ance is nevertheless quite easy to tame as i have often found by experiment n the th of may while at va lencia in spain i caught a fairs male tarantula without hurting him and im prisoned him in a glass jar with a paper cover in which i cut a trapdoor at the bottom of the jar i put a paper bag to serve as his habitual residence i placed the jar on a table in my bedroom so as to have him under frequent observation he soon grew accus tomed to captivity and ended by becoming so familiar that he would come and take from my fingers the live fly which i gave him after killing his victim with the fangs of his mandibles he was not satisfied like most spiders to suck her head he chewed her whole body shoving it piecemeal into his mouth with his palpi after which he threw up the masticated teguments and swept them away from his lodging having finished his meal he nearly al ways made his toilet which consisted in brushing his palpi and mandibles both inside and out with his front tarsi after that he resumed his air of motionless gravity the evening and the night were his time for tak ing his walks abroad i often heard him scratching the paper of the bag these habits confirm the opinion which i have already expressed elsewhere that most spiders have the faculty of seeing by day and night like cats n the th of june my tarantula cast his skin it was his last moult and did not perceptibly alter either the colour of his at tire or the dimensions of his body on the th of july i had to leave valencia and i stayed away until the d during this time the tarantula fasted i found him look ing quite well on my return on the th of august i again left for a nine days absence which my prisoner bore without food and without detriment to his health on the ist of october i once more deserted the taran tula leaving him without provisions on the st i was fifty miles from valencia and as i intended to remain there i sent a servant to fetch him i was sorry to learn that he was not found in the jar and i never heard what became of him i will end my observations on the taran tulas with a short description of a curious fight between those animals one day when i had had a successful hunt after these lycosae i picked out two fullgrown and very powerful males and brought them to gether in a wide jar in order to enjoy the sight of a combat to the death after walk ing round the arena several times to try and avoid each other they were not slow in placing themselves in a warlike attitude as though at a given signal i saw them to my surprise take their distances and sit up en solemnly on their hindlegs so as mutually to £ present the shield of their chests to each q other after watching them face to face like a that for two minutes during which they had jj doubtless provoked each other by glances that escaped my own i saw them fling them n j selves upon each other at the same time twisting their legs round each other and ob stinately struggling to bite each other with r p the fangs of the mandibles whether from cd fatigue or from convention the combat was m suspended there was a few seconds truce and each athlete moved away and resumed his threatening posture this circumstance reminded me that in the strange fights be ci tween cats there are also suspensions of hostilities but the contest was soon renewed between my two tarantulae with increased fierceness one of them after holding vic tory in the balance for a while was at last thrown and received a mortal wound in the head he became the prey of the conqueror who tore open his skull and devoured it after this curious duel i kept the victorious tarantula alive for several weeks my district does not boast the ordinary tarantula the spider whose habits have been described above by the wizard of the landes but it possesses an equivalent in the shape of the blackbellied tarantula or nar bonne lycosa half the size of the other clad in black velvet on the lower surface espe cially under the belly with brown chevrons on the abdomen and grey and white rings around the legs her favourite home is the dry pebbly ground covered with sunscorched thjrme in my harmas laboratory there are quite twenty of this spiders burrows rarely do i pass by one of these haunts without giving a glance down the pit where gleam provengal for the bit of waste ground on which the author studies his insects in the natural state  trans lators note like diamonds the four great eyes the four telescopes of the hermit the four others which arc much smaller arc not visible at that depth would i have greater riches i have but to walk a hundred yards from my house on the neighbouring plateau once a shady forest today a dreary solitude where the cricket browses and the wheatear flits from stone to stone the love of lucre has laid waste the land because wine paid handsomely they pulled up the forest to plant the vine then came the phylloxera the vinestocks perished and the once green tableland is now no more than a desolate stretch where a few tufts of hardy grasses sprout among the pebbles this wasteland is the lycosas paradise in an hours time if need were i should discover a hundred burrows within a limited range these dwellings are pits about a foot deep perpendicular at first and then bent elbow wise the average diameter is an inch on the edge of the hole stands a kerb formed of straw bits and scraps of all sorts and even small pebbles the size of a hazelnut the whole is kept in place and cemented with silk often the spider confines herself to drawing together the dry blades of the nearest grass which she ties down with the straps of her spinnerets without removing the blades from the stems often also she rejects this scaffold ing in favour of a masonry constructed of small stones the nature of the kerb is de cided by the nature of the materials within the lycosas reach in the close neighbour hood of the buildingyard there is no selection everything meets with approval provided that it be near at hand economy of time therefore causes the de fensive wall to vary greatly as regards its constituent elements the height varies also one enclosure is a turret an inch high another amounts to a mere rim all have their parts bound firmly together with silk and all have the same width as the subter ranean channel of which they are the exten sion there is here no difference in diameter between the underground manor and its out work nor do we behold at the opening the platform which the turret leaves to give free play to the italian tarantulas legs the blackbellied tarantulas work takes the form of a well surmounted by its kerb when the soil is earthy and homogeneous the architectural type is free from obstruc tions and the spiders dwelling is a cylin drical tube but when the site is pebbly the shape is modified according to the exigencies of the digging in the second case the lair is often a rough winding cave at intervals along whose inner wall stick blocks of stone avoided in the process of excavation whether regular or irregular the house is plastered to a certain depth with a coat of silk which prevents earthslips and facilitates scaling when a prompt exit is required baglivi in his unsophisticated latin teaches us how to catch the tarantula i be came his rusticus insidiator i waved a spike let at the entrance of the burrow to imitate the humming of a bee and attract the atten tion of the lycosa who rushes out thinking that she is capturing a prey this method did not succeed with me the spider it is true leaves her remote apartments and comes a little way up the vertical tube to enquire into the sounds at her door but the wily animal soon scents a trap it remains motion less at midheight and at the least alarm goes down again to the branch gallery where it is invisible leon dufours appears to me a better method if it were only practicable in the con ditions wherein i find myself to drive a knife quickly into the ground across the bur row so as to cut off the tarantulas retreat when she is attracted by the spikelet and standing on the upper floor would be a man oeuvre certain of success if the soil were favourable unfortunately this is not so in my case you might as well try to dig a knife into a block of tufa other stratagems become necessary here are two which were successful i recommend them to future tarantulahunters i insert into the burrow as far down as i can a stalk with a fleshy spikelet which the spider can bite into i move and turn and twist my bait the tarantula when touched by the in truding body contemplates selfdefence and bites the spikelet a slight resistance informs my fingers that the animal has fallen into the trap and se the tip of the stalk in its fangs i draw it to me slowly carefully the spider hauls from below planting her legs against the wall it comes it rises i hide as best i may when the spider enters the perpendicular tunnel if she saw me she would let go the bait and slip down again i thus bring her by degrees to the orifice this is the difficult moment if i continue the gentle movement the spider feeling her self dragged out of her home would at once run back indoors it is impossible to get the suspicious animal out by this means there fore when it appears at the level of the ground i give a sudden pull surprised by this foul play the tarantula has no time to release her hold gripping the spikelet she is thrown some inches away from the burrow her capture now becomes an easy matter outside her own house the lycosa is timid as though scared and hardly capable of run ning away to push her with a straw into a paper bag is the affair of a second it requires some patience to bring the tarantula who has bitten into the insidious spikelet to the entrance of the burrow the following method is quicker i procure a sup ply of live bumblebees i put one into a little bottle with a mouth just wide enough to cover the opening of the burrow and i turn the apparatus thus baited over the said open ing the powerful bee at first flutters and hums about her glass prison then perceiv ing a burrow similar to that of her family she enters it without much hesitation she is extremely illadvised while she goes down the spider comes up and the meeting takes place in the perpendicular passage for a few moments the ear perceives a sort of deathsong it is the humming of the bumblebee protesting against the reception given her this is followed by a long silence then i remove the bottle and dip a longjawed forceps into the pit i withdraw the bumblebee motionless dead with hang ing proboscis a terrible tragedy must have happened the spider follows refusing to let go so rich a booty game and huntress are brought to the orifice sometimes mis trustful the lycosa goes in again but we have only to leave the bumblebee on the threshold of the door or even a few inches away to see her reappear issue from her fortress and daringly recapture her prey this is the moment the house is closed with the finger or a pebble and as baglivi says captatur tamen ista a rustico insidiatore to which i will add adjuvante botnbo thanks to the bumblebee the object of these hunting methods was not exactly to obtain tarantulae i had not the least wish to rear the spider in a bottle i was interested in a different matter here thought i is an ardent huntress living solely by her trade she does not prepare preserved foodstuffs for her offspring she herself feeds on the prey which she catches she is not a paralyzer who cleverly spares her quarry so as to leave it a glimmer of life and keep it fresh for weeks at a time she is a killer who makes a meal off her capture on the spot with her there is no methodical vivisection which destroys movement with out entirely destroying life but absolute death as sudden as possible which protects the assailant from the counterattacks of the assailed her game moreover is essentially bulky and not always of the most peaceful char acter this diana ambushed in her tower needs a prey worthy of her prowess the big grasshopper with the powerful jaws the irascible wasp the bee the bumblebee and other wearers of poisoned daggers must fall likc the dunghettles translators note like the soliury wslspstranslators note into the ambuscade from time to time the duel is nearly equal in point of weapons to the venomous fangs of the lycosa the wasp opposes her venomous stiletto which of the two bandits shall have the best of it the struggle is a handtohand one the tarantula has no secondary means of de fence no cord to bind her victim no trap to subdue her when the epeira or garden spider sees an insect entangled in her great upright web she hastens up and covers the captive with corded meshes and silk ribbons by the armful making all resistance impossi ble when the prey is solidly bound a prick is carefully administered with the poison fangs then the spider retires waiting for the deaththroes to calm down after which the huntress comes back to the game in these conditions there is no serious danger in the case of the lycosa the job is riskier she has naught to serve her but her courage and her fangs and is obliged to leap upon the formidable prey to master it by her dexterity to annihilate it in a measure by her swiftslaying talent annihilate is the word the bumblebees whom i draw from the fatal hole are a suf ficient proof as soon as that shrill buzzing which i called the deathsong ceases in vain i hasten to insert my forceps i always bring out the insect dead with slack proboscis and limp legs scarce a few quivers of those legs tell me that it is a quite recent corpse the bumblebees death is instantaneous each time that i take a fresh victim from the ter rible slaughterhouse my surprise is renewed at the sight of its sudden immobility nevertheless both animals have very nearly the same strength for i choose my bumblebees from among the largest bom bus hortorum and b terrestris their weapons are almost equal the bees dart can bear comparison with the spiders fangs the sting of the first seems to me as formid able as the bite of the second how comes it that the tarantula always has the upper hand and this moreover in a very short con flict whence she emerges unscathed there must certainly be some cunning strategy on her part subtle though her poison may be i cannot believe that its mere injection at any point whatever of the victim is enough to produce so prompt a catastrophe the illfamed rattlesnake does not kill so quickly takes hours to achieve that for which the tarantula does not require a second we must therefore look for an explanation of this sudden death to the vital importance of the point attacked by the spider rather than to the virulence of the poison what is this point it is impossible to recognize it on the bumblebees they enter the burrow and the murder is committed far from sight nor does the lens discover any wound upon the corpse so delicate are the weapons that produce it one would have to see the two adversaries engage in a direct contest i have often tried to place a taran tula and a bumblebee face to face in the same bottle the two animals mutually flee each other each being as much upset as the other at its captivity i have kept them together for twentyfour hours without ag gressive display on either side thinking more of their prison than of attacking each other they temporize as though indifferent the experiment has always been fruitless i have succeeded with bees and wasps but the murder has been committed at night and has taught me nothing i would find both insects next morning reduced to a jelly un der the spiders mandibles a weak prey is a mouthful which the spider reserves for the calm of the night a prey capable of resist ance is not attacked in captivity the pris oners anxiety cools the hunters ardour the arena of a large bottle enables each athlete to keep out of the others way re spected by her adversary who is respected in her turn let us reduce the lists diminish the enclosure i put bumblebee and taran tula into a testtube that has only room for one at the bottom a lively brawl ensues without serious results if the bumblebee be underneath she lies down on her back and with her legs wards off the other as much as she can i do not see her draw her sting the spider meanwhile embracing the whole circumference of the enclosure with her long legs hoists herself a little upon the slippery surface and removes herself as far as possible from her adversary there motionless she awaits events which are soon disturbed by the fussy bumblebee should the latter occupy the upper position the tarantula protects herself by drawing up her legs which keep the enemy at a distance in short save for sharp scuffles when the two champions are in touch nothing happens that deserves attention there is no duel to the death in the narrow arena of the testtube any more than in the wider lists afforded by the bottle utterly timid once she is away from home the spider obstinately refuses the battle nor will the bumblebee giddy though she be think of striking the first blow i abandon experiments in my study we must go direct to the spot and force the duel upon the tarantula who is full of pluck in her own stronghold only instead of the bumblebee who enters the burrow and conceals her death from our eyes it is necessary to substitute another adversary less inclined to penetrate underground there abounds in the garden at this moment on the flowers of the common clary one of the largest and most powerful bees that haunt my district the carpenterbee xylocopa viola cea clad in black velvet with wings of pur ple gauze her size which is nearly an inch exceeds that of the bumblebee her sting is excruciating and produces a swelling that long continues painful i have very exact memo ries on this subject memories that have cost me dear here indeed is an antagonist worthy of the tarantula if i succeed in inducing the spider to accept her i place a certain num ber one by one in bottles small in capacity but having a wide neck capable of surround ing the entrance to the burrow as the prey which i am about to offer is capable of overawing the huntress i select from among the tarantulas the lustiest the boldest those most stimulated by hunger the spikeleted stalk is pushed into the bur row when the spider hastens up at once when she is of a good size when she climbs boldly to the aperture of her dwelling she is admitted to the tourney otherwise she is refused the bottle baited with a carpen terbee is placed upside down over the door of one of the elect the bee buzzes gravely in her glass bell the huntress mounts from the recesses of the cave she is on the threshold but inside she looks she waits i also wait the quarters the halfhours pass nothing the spider goes down again she has probably judged the attempt too dan gerous i move to a second a third a fourth burrow still nothing the huntress refuses to leave her lair fortune at last smiles upon my patience which ha been heavily tried by all these prudent retreats and particularly by the fierce heat of the dogdays a spider suddenly rushes from her hole she has been rendered warlike doubtless by prolonged abstinence the tragedy that happens under the cover of the bottle lasts for but the twinkling of an eye it is over the sturdy carpenterbee is dead where did the murderess strike her that is easily ascertained the tarantula has not let go and her fangs are planted in the nape of the neck the assassin has the knowledge which i suspected she has made for the essen tially vital centre she has stung the insects cervical ganglia with her poisonfangs in short she has bitten the only point a lesion in which produces sudden death i was delighted with this murderous skill which made amends for the blistering which my skin received in the sun once is not custom one swallow does not make a summer is what i have just seen due to accident or to premeditation i turn to other lycosae many a deal too many for my patience stubbornly refuse to dart from their haunts in order to attack the carpenterbee the formidable quarry is too much for their daring shall not hunger which brings the wolf from the wood also bring the tarantula out of her hole two apparently more famished than the rest do at last pounce upon the bee and repeat the scene of murder before my eyes the prey again bitten in the neck exclusively in the neck dies on the instant three murders perpetrated in my presence under identical conditions represent the fruits of my experi ment pursued on two occasions from eight oclock in the morning until twelve midday i had seen enough the quick insect killer had taught me her trade as had the paralyzer before her she had shown me that she is thoroughly versed in the art of the butcher of the pampas the tarantula is an accomplished desnucador it remained to me to confirm the openair experiment with experiments in the privacy of my study i therefore got together a menagerie of these poisonous spiders so as to judge of the viru such as the hairy ammophila the cerceris and the languedocian sphex diggerwasps described in other of the authors essays  translators note the desnucador the argentine slaughterman whose methods of slaying cattle are detailed in the authors essay entitled the theory of instinct  translators note lence of their venom and its effect according to the part of the body injured by the fangs a dozen bottles and testtubes received the prisoners whom i captured by the methods known to the reader to one inclined to scream at the sight of a spider my study filled with odious lycosae would have pre sented a very uncanny appearance though the tarantula scorns or rather fears to attack an adversary placed in her presence in a bottle she scarcely hesitates to bite what is thrust beneath her fangs i take her by the thorax with my for ceps and present to her mouth the animal which i wish stung forthwith if the spider be not already tired by experiments the fangs are raised and inserted i first tried the effects of the bite upon the carpenter bee when struck in the neck the bee suc cumbs at once it was the lightning death which i witnessed on the threshold of the burrows when struck in the abdomen and then placed in a large bottle that leaves its movements free the insect seems at first to have suffered no serious injury it flut ters about and buzzes but half an hour has not elapsed before death is imminent the insect lies motionless upon its back or side at most a few movements of the legs a slight pulsation of the belly continuing till the morrow proclaim that life has not yet entirely departed then everything ceases the carpenterbee is a corpse the importance of this experiment compels our attention when stung in the neck the powerful bee dies on the spot and the spider has not to fear the dangers of a desperate struggle stung elsewhere in the abdomen the insect is capable for nearly half an hour of making use of its dart its mandibles its legs and woe to the lycosa whom the stiletto reaches i have seen some who stabbed in the mouth while biting close to the sting died of the wound within the twentyfour hours that dangerous prey therefore requires in stantaneous death produced by the injury to the nervecentres of the neck otherwise the hunters life would often be in jeopardy the grasshopper order supplied me with a second series of victims green grasshop pers as long as ones finger largeheaded locusts ephippigerae the same result fol lows when these are bitten in the neck light a family of grasshoppers  translators note ning death when injured elsewhere not ably in the abdomen the subject of the experiment resists for some time i have seen a grasshopper bitten in the belly cling firmly for fifteen hours to the smooth upright wall of the glass bell that constituted his prison at last he dropped off and died where the bee that delicate organism succumbs in less than half an hour the grasshopper coarse ruminant that he is resists for a whole day put aside these differences caused by unequal degrees of organic sensitiveness and we sum up as follows when bitten by the tarantula in the neck an insect chosen from among the largest dies on the spot when bitten else where it perishes also but after a lapse of time which varies considerably in the different entomological orders this explains the long hesitation of the tarantula so wearisome to the experimenter when he presents to her at the entrance to the burrow a rich but dangerous prey the ma jority refuse to fling themselves upon the car penterbee the fact is that a quarry of this kind cannot be se recklessly the huntress who missed her stroke by biting at random would do so at the risk of her life the nape of the neck alone possesses the desired vulnerability the adversary must be nipped there and no elsewhere not to floor her at once would mean to irritate her and make her more dangerous than ever the spider is well aware of this in the safe shelter of her threshold therefore prepared to beat a quick retreat if necessary she watches for the favourable moment she waits for the big bee to face her when the neck is easily grabbed if this condition of success offer she leaps out and acts if not weary of the violent evolutions of the quarry she retires indors and that no doubt is why it took me two sit tings of four hours apiece to witness three assassinations formerly instructed by the paralysing wasps i had myself tried to produce paral ysis by injecting a drop of ammonia into the thorax of those insects such as wee vils buprestes and dungbeetles whose compact nervous system assists this physio logical operation i showed myself a ready pupil to my masters teaching and used to paralyse a buprestis or a weevil almost as a genus of bethestranslators note well as a cerceris could have done why should i not today imitate that expert butcher the tarantula with the point of a fine needle i inject a tiny drop of ammonia at the base of the skull of a carpenterbee or a grasshopper the insect succumbs then and there without any other movement than wild convulsions when attacked by the acrid fluid the cervical ganglia cease to do their work and death ensues nevertheless this death is not immediate the throes last for some time the experiment is not wholly satisfactory as regards suddenness why because the liquid which i employ ammonia cannot be compared for deadly efficacy with the lycosas poison a pretty formidable poison as we shall see i make a tarantula bite the leg of a young wellfledged sparrow ready to leave the nest a drop of blood flows the wounded spot is surrounded by a reddish circle changing to purple the bird almost immediately loses the use of its leg which drags with the toes doubled in it hops upon the other apart from this the patient does not seem to trouble much about his hurt his a species of diggerwasp trawtoorj note appetite is good my daughters feed him on flies breadcrumb apricotpulp he is sure to get well he will recover his strength the poor victim of the curiosity of science will be restored to liberty this is the wish the intention of us all twelve hours later the hope of a cure increases the invalid takes nourishment readily he clamours for it if we keep him waiting but the leg still drags i set this down to a temporary paralysis which will soon disappear two days after he refuses his food wrapping himself in his stoicism and his rumpled feathers the sparrow hunches into a ball now motionless now twitching my girls take him in the hollow of their hands and warm him with their breath the spasms become more fre quent a gasp proclaims that all is over the bird is dead there was a certain coolness among us at the eveningmeal i read mute reproaches because of my experiment in the eyes of my homecircle i read an unspoken accusation of cruelty all around me the death of the un fortunate sparrow had saddened the whole family i myself was not without some re morse of conscience the poor result achieved seemed to me too dearly bought i am not made of the stuff of those who without turn ing a hair rip up live dogs to find out noth ing in particular neverthelss i had the courage to start afresh this time on a mole caught ravaging a bed of lettuces there was a danger lest my captive with his famished stomach should leave things in doubt if we had to keep him for a few days he might die not of his wound but of inanition if i did not succeed in giving him suitable food fairly plentiful and dispensed at fairly fre quent intervals in that case i ran a risk of ascribing to the poison what might well be the result of starvation i must therefore begin by finding out if it was possible for me to keep the mole alive in captivity the ani mal was put into a large receptacle from which it could not get out and fed oh a varied diet of insects  beetles grasshoppers es pecially cicada  which it crunched up with an excellent appetite twentyfour hours of this regimen convinced me that the mole was the cicada is the cigale an insect akin to the grass hoiper and found more particularly in the south of france  translators note making the best of the bill of fare and taking kindly to his captivity i made the tarantula bite him at the tip of the snout when replaced in his cage the mole keeps on scratching his nose with his broad paws the thing seems to burn to itch henceforth less and less of the pro vision of cicadae is consumed on the evening of the following day it is refused altogether about thirtysix hours after being bitten the mole dies during the night and certainly not from inanition for there were still half a dozen live cicada in the receptacle as well as a few beetles the bite of the blackbellied tarantula is therefore dangerous to other animals than insects it is fatal to the sparrow it is fatal to the mole up to what point are we to generalize i do not know because my en quiries extended no further nevertheless judging from the little that i saw it appears to me that the bite of this spider is not an accident which man can afford to treat lightly this is all that i have to say to the doctors to the philosophical entomologists i have something else to say i have to call their attention to the consummate knowledge of the insectkillers which vies with that of the paralyzers i speak of insectkillers in the plural for the tarantula must share her deadly art with a host of other spiders especially with those who hunt without nets these insectkillers who live on their prey strike the game dead instantaneously by stinging the nervecentres of the neck the paralyzers on the other hand who wish to keep the food fresh for their larvae destroy the power of movement by stinging the game in the other nervecentres both of them at tack the nervous chain but they select the point according to the object to be attained if death be desired sudden death free from danger to the huntress the insect is attacked in the neck if mere paralysis be required the neck is respected and the lower segments  sometimes one alone sometimes three sometimes all or nearly all according to the special organization of the victim  receive the daggerthrust even the paralyzers at least some of them are acquainted with the immense vital im portance of the nervecentres of the neck we have seen the hairy ammophila munch ing the caterpillars brain the languedocian sphex munching the brain of the ephip pigera with the object of inducing a pass ing torpor but they simply squeeze the brain and do even this with a wise dis cretion they are careful not to drive their sting into this fundamental centre of life not one of them ever thinks of doing so for the result would be a corpse which the larva would despise the spider on the other hand inserts her double dirk there and there alone any elsewhere it would inflict a wound likely to increase resistance through irritation she wants a venison for consump tion without delay and brutally thrusts her fangs into the spot which the others so con scientiously respect if the instinct of these scientific murderers is not in both cases an inborn predisposi tion inseparable from the animal but an acquired habit then i rack my brain in vain to understand how that habit can have been acquired shroud these facts in theoretic mists as much as you will you shall never succeed in veiling the glaring evidence which they afford of a preestablished order of things in the inclement season of the year when the insect has nothmg to do and retires to winter quarters the observer profits by the mildness of the sunny nooks and grubs in the sand lifts the stones searches the brushwood and often he is stirred with a pleasurable ex citement when he lights upon some ingenious work of art discovered unawares happy are the simple of heart whose ambition is satis fied with such treasuretrove i wish them all the joys which it has brought me and which it will continue to bring me despite the vexations of life which grow ever more bit ter as the years follow their swift downward course should the seekers rummage among the wild grasses in the osierbeds and copses i wish them the delight of finding the wonder ful object that at this moment lies before my eyes it is the work of a spider the nest of die banded epeira epeira fasciata latr a spider is not an insect according to the rules of classification and as such the epeira seems out of place here a fig for systems it is immaterial to the student of instinct whether the animal have eight legs instead of six or pulmonary sacs instead of airtubes besides the araneida belong to the group of segmented animals organ in sections placed end to end a structure to which the terms inscct and entomology both refer formerly to describe this group people said articulate animals an expression which possessed the drawback of not jarring on the ear and of being imderstood by all this is out of date nowadays they use the eupho nious term arthropoda and to think that there are men who question the existence of progress i infidels say articulate first then roll out arthropoda and you shall see whether zoological science is not pro gressing i the generic title of the work from which these es says are taken is entomological memories or studies relating to the instinct and habits of insects  trans lators note in bearing and colouring epeira fasciata is the handsomest of the spiders of the south on her fat belly a mighty silkware house nearly as large as a hazelnut are alternate yellow black and silver sashes to which she owes her epithet of banded around that portly abdomen the eight long legs with their dark and palebrown rings radiate like spokes any small prey suits her and as long as she can find supports for her web she settles wherever the locust hops wherever the fly hovers wherever the dragonfly dances or the butterfly flits as a rule because of the greater abundance of game she spreads her toils across some brooklet from bank to bank among the rushes she also stretches them but not assiduously in the thickets of evergreen oak on the slopes with the scrubby greenswards dear to the grass hoppers her huntingweapon is a large upright web whose outer boundary which varies ac cording to the disposition of the ground is fastened to the neighbouring branches by a number of moorings the structure is that adopted by the other weaving spiders straight threads radiate at equal intervals from a central point over this framework runs a continuous spiral thread forming chords or crossbars from the centre to the circumference it is magnificently large and magnificently symmetrical in the lower part of the web starting from the centre a wide opaque ribbon descends zigzagwise across the radii this is the epeiras trademark the flourish of an artist initialing his creation fecit soandso she seems to say when giving the last throw of the shuttle to her handiwork that the spider feels satisfied when after passing and repassing from spoke to spoke she finishes her spiral is beyond a doubt the work achieved ensures her food for a few days to come but in this particular case the vanity of the spinstress has naught to say to the matter the strong silk zigzag is added to impart greater firmness to the web increased resistance is not superfluous for the net is sometimes exposed to severe tests the epeira cannot pick and choose her prizes seated motionless in the centre of her web her eight legs widespread to feel the shaking of the network in any direction she waits for what luck will bring her now some giddy weakling unable to control its flight anon some powerful prey rushing head long with a reckless bound the locust in particular the fiery locust who releases the spring of his long shanks at random often falls into the trap one imagines that his strength ought to frighten the spider the kick of his spurred levers should enable him to make a hole then and there in the web and to get away but not at all if he does not free himself at the first effort the locust is lost turning her back on the game the epeira works all her spinnerets pierced like the rose of a wateringpot at one and the same time the silky spray is gathered by the hindlegs which are longer than the others and open into a wide arc to allow the stream to spread thanks to this artifice the epeira this time obtains not a thread but an iridescent sheet a sort of clouded fan wherein the component threads are kept almost separate the two hindlegs fling this shroud gradually by rapid alternate armfuls while at the same time they turn the prey over and over swath ing it completely the ancient retiarius when pitted against a powerful wild beast appeared in the arena with a ropenet folded over his left shoulder the animal made its spring the man with a sudden movement of his right arm cast the net after the manner of the fishermen he covered the beast and tangled it in the meshes a thrust of the trident gave the quietus to the vanquished foe the epeira acts in like fashion with this advantage that she is able to renew her arm ful of fetters should the first not suffice a second instantly follows and another and yet another until the reserves of silk become ex hausted when all movement ceases under the snowy windingsheet the spider goes up to her bound prisoner she has a better weapon than the bestiarius trident she has her poisonfangs she gnaws at the locust without undue persistence and then with draws leaving the torpid patient to pine away soon she comes back to her motionless head of game she sucks it drains it re peatedly changing her point of attack at last the deanbled remains are flung out of the net and the spider returns to her am bush in the centre of the web what the epeira sucks is not a corpse but a numbed body if i remove the locust im mediately after he has been bitten and release him from the silken sheath the patient recovers his strength to such an ex tent that he seems at first to have suffered no injury the spider therefore does not kill her capture before sucking its juices she is content to deprive it of the power of mo tion by producing a state of torpor perhaps this kindlier bite gives her greater facility in working her pump the humours if stag nant in a corpse would not respond so readily to the action of the sucker they are more easily extracted from a live body in which they move about the epeira therefore being a drinker of blood moderates the virulence of her sting even with victims of appalling size so sure is she of her retiarian art the long legged tryxalis the corpulent grey locust the largest of our grasshoppers are accepted without hesitation and sudced dry as soon as numbed those giants capable of making a a species of grasshopper traiwlfltorj note hole in the net and passing through it in their impetuous onrush can be but rarely caught i myself place them on the web the spider does the rest lavishing her silky spray she swathes them and then sucks the body at her ease with an increased expenditure of the spinnerets the very biggest game is mastered as successfully as the everyday prey i have seen even better than that this time my subject is the silky epeira epeira sericea oliv with a broad festooned silvery abdomen like that of the other her web is large upright and signed with a zigzag ribbon i place upon it a praying mantis a welldeveloped specimen quite capable of changing roles should circum stances permit and herself making a meal oif her assailant it is a question no longer of capturing a peaceful locust but a fierce and powerful ogre who would rip open the epeiras paunch with one blow of her har poons an insect akin to the locusts and crickets which when at rest adopts an attitude resembling that of prayer when attacking it assumes what is known as the spectral attitude its forelegs form a sort of sawlike or barbed harpoons cf social life in the insect world by j h fabre translated by bernard miall chaps v to wiutranslators note will the spider dare not immedi ately motionless in the centre of her net she consults her strength before attacking the formidable quarry she waits until the strug gling prey has its claws more thickly en tangled at last she approaches the mantis curls her belly lifts her wings like vertical sails opens her sawtoothed arm pieces in short adopts the spectral attitude which she employs when delivering battle the spider disregards these menaces spreading wide her spinnerets she pumps out sheets of silk which the hindlegs draw out expand and fling without stint in alternate armfuls under this shower of threads the mantis terrible saws the lethal legs quickly disappear from sight as do the wings still erected in the spectral posture meanwhile the swathed one gives sudden jerks which make the spider fall out of her web the accident is provided for a safetycord emitted at the same instant by the spinnerets keeps the epeira hanging swinging in space when calm is restored she packs her cord and climbs up again the heavy paunch and the hindlegs are now bound the flow slackens the silk comc§ only in thin sheets fortunately the busi ness is done the prey is invisible under the thick shroud the spider retires without giving a bite to master the terrible quarry she has spent the whole reserves of her spinningmill enough to weave many goods webs with this heap of shackles further precau tions are superfluous after a short rest in the centre of the net she comes down to dinner slight incisions are made in different parts of the prize now here now there and the spider puts her mouth to each and sucks the blood of her prey the meal is long protracted so rich is the dish for ten hours i watch the in satiable glutton who changes her point of attack as each wound sucked dries up night comes and robs me of the finish of the un bridled debauch next morning the drained mantis lies upon the ground the ants are eagerly devouring the remains the eminent talents of the epeirae are dis played to even better purpose in the industrial business of motherhood than in the art of the chase the silk bag the nest in which the banded epeira houses her eggs is a much greater marvel than the birds nest in shape it is an inverted balloon nearly the size of a pigeons egg the top tapers like a pear and is cut short and crowned with a scalloped rim the corners of which are lengthened by means of moorings that fasten the object to the adjoining twigs the whole a graceful ovoid hangs straight down amid a few threads that steady it the top is hollowed into a crater closed with a silky padding every other part is contained in the general wrapper formed of thick compact white satin difficult to break and impervious to moisture brown and even black silk laid out in broad ribbons in spindleshaped patterns in fanciful meridian waves adorns the upper portion of the ex terior the part played by this fabric is selfevident it is a waterproof cover which neither dew nor rain can penetrate exposed to all the inclemencies of the weather among the dead grasses close to the ground the epeiras nest has also to protect its contents from the winter cold let us cut the wrapper with our scissors under neath we find a thick layer of reddishbrown silk not worked into a fabric this time but puffed into an extrafine wadding it is a fleeq cloud an incomparable quilt softer than any swansdown this is the screen set up against loss of heat and what does this cosy mass protect see in the middle of the eiderdown hangs a cylindrical pocket round at the bottom cut square at the top and closed with a padded lid it is made of extremely fine satin it contains the epeiras eggs pretty little orange coloured beads which glued together form a globule the size of a pea this is the treas ure to be defended against the asperities of the winter now that we know the structure of the work let us try to see in what manner the spinstress sets about it the observation is not an easy one for the banded epeira is a nightworker she needs nocturnal quiet in order not to go astray amid the complicated rules that guide her industry now and again at very early hours in the morning i have happened to catch her working which enables me to sum up the progress of the operations my subjects are busy in their bellshaped cages at about the middle of august a scaffolding is first run up at the top of the dome it consists of a few stretched threads the wire trellis represents the twigs and the blades of grass which the spider if at liberty would have used as suspension points the loom works on this shaky support the epeira does not see what she is doing she turns her back on her task the machinery is so well put together that the whole thing goes automatically the tip of the abdomen sways a little to the right a little to the left rises and falls while the spider moves slowly round and round the thread paid out is single the hindlegs draw it out and place it in position on that which is already done thus is formed a satin receptacle the rim of which is gradually raised until it becomes a bag about a centimeter deep the texture is of the daintiest guyropes bind it to the nearest threads and keep it stretched especially at the mouth then the spinnerets take a rest and the turn of the ovaries comes a continuous shower of eggs falls into the bag which is filled to the top the capacity of the recep inch  translators note tade has been so nicely calculated that there is room for all the eggs without leaving any space unoccupied when the spider has finished and retires i catch a momentary glimpse of the heap of orangecoloured eggs but the work of the spinnerets is at once resumed the next business is to close the bag the machinery works a little differently the tip of the belly no longer sways from side to side it sinks and touches a point it re treats sinks again and touches another point first here then there describing inextricable zigzags at the same time the hindlegs tread the material emitted the result is no longer a stuff but a felt a blanketing around the satin capsule which contains the eggs is the eiderdown destined to keep out the cold the youngsters will bide for some time in this soft shelter to strengthen their joints and prepare for the final exodus it does not take long to make the spinning mill suddenly alters the raw material it was turning out white silk it now furnishes reddishbrown silk finer than the other and issuing in clouds which the hindlegs those dexterous carders beat into a sort of froth the eggpocket disappears drowned in this exquisite wadding the balloonshape is already outlined the top of the work tapers to a neck the spider moving up and down tacking first to one side and then to the other from the very first spray marks out the graceful form as accurately as though she carried a compass in her abdomen then once again with the same sudden ness the material changes the white silk reappears wrought into thread this is the moment to weave the outer wrapper be cause of the thickness of the stufi and the density of its texture this operation is the longest of the series first a few threads are flung out hither and thither to keep the layer of wadding in position the epeira takes special pains with the edge of the neck where she fashions an indented border the angles of which pro longed with cords or lines form the main sup port of the building the spinnerets never touch this part without giving it each time until the end of the work a certain added solidity necessary to secure the stability of the balloon the suspensory indentations soon outline a crater which needs plugging the spider closes the bag with a padded stopper similar to that with which she sealed the egg pocket when these arrangements are made the real manufacture of the wrapper begins the spider goes backwards and forwards turns and turns again the spinnerets do not touch the fabric with a rhythmical alter nate movement the hindlegs the sole im plements employed draw the thread seize it in their combs and apply it to the work while the tip of the abdomen sways methodically to and fro in this way the silken fibre is distributed in an even zigzag of almost geometrical pre cision and comparable with that of the cotton thread which the machines in our factories roll so neatly into balls and this is repeated all over the surface of the work for the spider shifts her position a little at every moment at fairly frequent intervals the tip of the abdomen is lifted to the mouth of the bal loon and then the spinnerets really touch the fringed edge the length of contact is even considerable we find therefore that the thread is stuck in this starshaped fringe the foundation of the building and the crux of the whole while every elsewhere it is simply laid on in a manner determined by the move ments of the hindlegs if we wished to un wind the work the thread would break at the margin at any other point it would unroll the epeira ends her web with a dead white angular flourish she ends her nest with brown mouldings which run down ir regularly from the marginal junction to the bulging middle for this purpose she makes use for the third time of a different silk she now produces silk of a dark hue vary ing from russet to black the spinnerets distribute the material with a wide longitudi nal swing from pole to pole and the hind legs apply it in capricious ribbons when this is done the work is finished the spider moves away with slow strides without giving a glance at the bag the rest does not in terest her time and the sun will see to it she felt her hour at hand and came down from her web near by in the rank grass she wove the tabernacle of her offspring and in so doing drained her resources to re sume her huntingpost to return to her web would be useless to her she has not the wherewithal to bind the prey besides the fine appetite of former days has gone withered and languid she drags out her ex istence for a few days and at last dies this is how things happen in my cages this is how they must happen in the brushwood the silky epeira epeira sericea oliv excels the banded epeira in the manufacture of big huntingnets but she is less gifted in the art of nestbuilding she gives her nest the inelegant form of an obtuse cone the opening of this pocket is very wide and is scalloped into lobes by which the edifice is slung it is closed with a large lid half satin half awansdown the rest is a stout white fabric frequently covered with irregular brown streaks the difference between the work of the two epeirae does not extend beyond the wrap per which is an obtuse cone in the one case and a balloon in the other the same in ternal arrangements prevail behind this front age first a flossy quilt next a little keg in which the eggs are packed though the two spiders build the outer wall according to special architectural rules they both employ the same means as a protection against the cold as we see the eggbag of the epeirae particularly that of the banded epeira is an important and complex work various ma terials enter into its composition white silk red silk brown silk moreover these materi als are worked into dissimilar products stout cloth soft eiderdown dainty satinette porous felt and all of this comes from the same workshop that weaves the huntingnet warps the zigzag ribbonband and casts an entan gling shroud over the prey what a wonderful silk factory it is with a very simple and nevervarying plant con sisting of the hindlegs and the spinnerets it produces by turns ropemakers spinners weavers ribbonmakers and fullers work how does the spider direct an establish ment of this kind how does she obtain at will skeins of diverse hues and grades how does she turn them out first in this fashion then in that i see the results but i do not understand the machinery and still less the process it beats me altogether the spider also sometimes loses her head in her difficult trade when some trouble dis turbes the peace of her nocturnal labours i do not provoke this trouble myself for i am not present at those unseasonable hours it is simply due to the conditions prevailing in my menagerie in their natural state the epeirae settle separately at long distances from one another each has her own huntinggrounds where there is no reason to fear the competition that would result from the close proximity of the nets in my cages on the other hand there is cohabitation in order to save space i lodge two or three epeirae in the same cage my easygoing captives live together in peace there is no strife between them no encroach ing on the neighbours property each of them weaves herself a rudimentary web as far from the rest as possible and here rapt in contemplation as though indifferent to what the others are doing she awaits the hop of the locust nevertheless these close quarters have their drawbacks when layingtime arrives the cords by which the different establish ments are hung interlace and crisscross in a confused network when one of them shakes all the others are more or less affected this is enough to distract the layer from her business and to make her do silly things here are two instances a bag has been woven during the night i find it when i visit the cage in the morning hanging from the trelliswork and completed it is perfect as regards structure it is deco rated with the regulation black meridian curves there is nothing missing nothing except the essential thing the eggs for which the spinstress has gone to such expense in the matter of silks where are the eggs they are not in the bag which i open and find empty they are lying on the ground below on the sand in the pan utterly unprotected disturbed at the moment of discharging them the mother has missed the mouth of the little bag and dropped them on the floor perhaps even in her excitement she came down from above and compelled by the ex igencies of the ovaries laid her eggs on the first support that offered no matter if her spider brain contains the least gleam of sense she must be aware of the disaster and is there fore bound at once to abandon the elaborate manufacture of a now superfluous nest not at all the bag is woven around noth ing as accurate in shape as finished in struc ture as under normal conditions the absurd perseverance displayed by certain bees whose egg and provisions i used to remove is here repeated without the slightest interfer ence from me my victims used scrupulously to seal up their empty cells in the same way the epeira puts the eiderdown quilting and the taffeta wrapper round a capsule that contains nothing another distracted from her work by some startling vibration leaves her nest at the moment when the layer of redbrown wad ding is being completed she flees to the dome at a few inches above her unfinished work and spends upon a shapeless mattress of no use whatever all the silk with which she would have woven the outer wrapper if nothing had come to disturb her poor fool you upholster the wires of your cage with swansdown and you leave the eggs imperfectly protected the absence of the work already executed and the hard ness of the metal do not warn you that you these experiments are described in the authors es say on the mason bees entitled fragments on insect psychology  translators note are now engaged upon a senseless task you remind me of the pelopaeus who used to coat with mud the place on the wall whence her nest had been removed you speak to me in your own fashion of a strange psy chology which is able to reconcile the wonders of a mastercraftsmanship with aberrations due to unfathomable stupidity let us compare the work of the banded epeira with that of the penduline titmouse the cleverest of our small birds in the art of nestbuilding this tit haunts the osierbeds of the lower reaches of the rhone rocking gently in the river breeze his nest sways pendent over the peaceful backwaters at some distance from the tooimpetuous cur rent it hangs from the drooping end of the branch of a poplar an old willow or an alder all of them tall trees favouring the banks of streams it consists of a cotton bag closed all round save for a small opening at the side just sufficient to allow of the mothers pas sage in shape it resembles the body of an alembic a chemists retort with a short lateral neck or better still the foot of a a species of wasp  translators note stocking with the edges brought together but for a little round hole left at one side the outward appearances increase the like ness one can almost see the traces of a knit tingneedle working with coarse stitches that is why struck by this shape the provencal peasant in his expressive language calls the penduline lou debassaire the stodk ingknitter the earlyripening seedlets of the willows and poplars furnish the materials for the work there breaks from them in may a sort of vernal snow a fine down which the eddies of the air heap in the crevices of the ground it is a cotton similar to that of our manufactures but of very short staple it comes from an inexhaustible warehouse the tree is bountiful and the wind from the osier beds gathers the tiny flocks as they pour from the seeds they are easy to pick up the difficulty is to set to work how does the bird proceed in order to knit its stock ing how with such simple implements as its beak and claws does it manage to produce a fabric which our skilled fingers would fail to achieve an examination of the nest will inform us to a certain extent the cotton of the poplar cannot of itself supply a hanging pocket capable of supporting the weight of the brood and resisting the buffeting of the wind rammed entangled and packed together the flocks similar to those which ordinary wadding would give if chopped up very fine would produce only an agglomeration devoid of cohesion and liable to be dis pelled by the first breath of air they require a canvas a woof to keep them in position tiny dead stalks with fibrous barks well softened by the action of moisture and the air furnish the penduline with a coarse tow not unlike that of hemp with these liga ments purged of every woody particle and tested for flexibility and tenacity he winds a number of loops round the end of the branch which he has selected as a support for his structure it is not a very accurate piece of work the loops run clumsily and anyhow some are slacker others tighter but when all is said it is solid which is the main point also this fibrous sheath the keystone of the edifice occupies a fair length of branch which enables the fastenings for the net to be multiplied the several straps after describing a cer tain number of turns ravel out at the ends and hang loose after them come inter laced threads greater in number and finer in texture in the tangled jumble occur what might almost be described as weavers knots as far as one can judge by the result alone without having seen the bird at work this is how the canvas the support of the cotton wall is obtained this woof this inner framework is ob viously not constructed in its entirety from the start it goes on gradually as the bird stuffs the part above it with cotton the wadding picked up bit by bit from the ground is teazled by the birds claws and in serted all fleecy into the meshes of the canvas the beak pushes it the breast presses it both inside and out the result is a soft felt a couple of inches thick near the top of the pouch on one side is contrived a narrow orifice tapering into a short neck this is the kitchendoor in order to pass through it the penduline small though he be has to force the elastic parti tion which yields slightly and then contracts lastly the house is furnished with a mattress of firstquality cotton here lie from six to eight white eggs the size of a cherrystone well this wonderful nest is a barbarous uj casemate compared with that of the banded epeira as regards shape this stockingfoot si cannot be mentioned in the same breath with o the spiders elegant and faultlesslyrounded t balloon the fabric of mixed cotton and jv tow is a rustic frieze beside the spinstress r satin the suspensionstraps are clumsy cables compared with the delicate silk fastenings ii c where shall we find in the pendulines mat  e tress aught to vie with the epeiras eider z down that teazled russet gossamer the ui spider is superior to the bird in every way in so far as concerns her work x but on her side the penduline is a more devoted mother for weeks on end squat ting at the bottom of her purse she presses to q her heart the eggs those little white pebbles x from which the warmth of her body will j bring forth life the epeira knows not these softer passions without bestowing a second glance on it she abandons her nest to its fate be it good or ill the epeira who displays such aston ishing industry to give her eggs a dwellinghouse of incomparable perfection becomesi after that careless of her family for what reason she lacks the time she has to die when the first cold comes whereas the eggs are destined to pass the winter in their downy snuggery the desertion of the nest is inevitable owing to the very force of things but if the hatching were earlier and took place in the epeiras lifetime i imagine that she would rival the bird in devotion so i gather from the analogy of thomisus onustus walck a shapely spider who weaves no web lies in wait for her prey and walks sideways after the manner of the crab i have spoken elsewhere of her encounters with the domestic bee whom she jugulates by biting her in the neck in chapter viii of the present volume raiw lators note skilful in the prompt despatch of her prey the little crab spider is no less wellversed in the nesting art i find her settled on a privet in the enclosure here in the heart of a cluster of flowers the luxurious creature plaits a little pocket of white satin shaped like a wee thimble it is the receptacle for the eggs a round flat lid of a felted fabric closes the mouth above this ceiling rises a dome of stretched threads and faded flowerets which have fallen from the cluster this is the watchers belvedere her conningtower an opening which is always free gives access to this post here the spider remains on constant duty she has thinned greatly since she laid her eggs has almost lost her corporation at the least alarm she sallies forth waves a threatening limb at the passing stranger and invites him with a gesture to keep his dis tance having put the intruder to flight she quickly returns indoors and what does she do in there under her arch of withered flowers and silk night and day she shields the precious eggs with her poor body spread out flat eating is neglected no more lying in wait no more bees drained to the last drop of blood motionless rapt in meditation the spider is in an incubating posture in other words she is sitting on her eggs strictly speaking the word incubating means that and nothing else the brooding hen is no more assiduous but she is also a heatingapparatus and with the gentle warmth of her body awakens the germs to life for the spider the heat of the sun suffices and this alone keeps me from saying that she broods for two or three weeks more and more wrinkled by abstinence the little spider never relaxes her position then comes the hatch ing the youngsters stretch a few threads in swinglike curves from twig to twig the tiny ropedancers practise for some days in the sun then they disperse each intent upon his own affairs let us now look at the watchtower of the nest the mother is still there but this time lifeless the devoted creature has known the delight of seeing her family bom she has assisted the weaklings through the trapdoor and when her duty was done very gently she died the hen does not reach this height of selfabnegation other spiders do better still as for in stance the narbonne lycosa or black bellied tarantula lycosa narbonnensis walck whose prowess has been described in an earlier chapter the reader will re member her burrow her pit of a bottlenecks width dug in the pebbly soil beloved by the lavender and the thyme the mouth is rimmed by a bastion of gravel and bits of wood cemented with silk there is nothing else around her dwelling no web no snares of any kind from her inchhigh turret the lycosa lies in wait for the passing locust she gives a bound pursues the prey and suddenly de prives it of motion with a bite in the neck the game is consumed on the spot or else in the lair the insects tough hide arouses no disgust the sturdy huntress is not a drinker of blood like the epeira she needs solid food food that crackles between the jaws she is like a dog devouring his bone would you care to bring her to the light of day from the depths of her well insert a thin straw into the burrow and move it about uneasy as to what is happening above the recluse hastens to climb up and stops in a threatening attitude at some dis tance from the orifice you see her eight eyes gleaming like diamonds in the dark you see her powerful poisonfangs yawning ready to bite he who is not accustomed to the sight of this horror rising from under the ground cannot suppress a shiver brrrrl let us leave the beast alone chance a poor standby sometimes con trives very well at the beginning of the month of august the children call me to the far side of the enclosure rejoicing in a find which they have made under the rosemary bushes it is a magnificent lycosa with an enormous belly the sign of an impending delivery the obese spider is gravely devouring something in the midst of a circle of on lookers and what the remains of a lycosa a little smaller than herself the re mains of her male it is the end of the tragedy that concludes the nuptials the sweetheart is eating her lover i allow the matrimonial rites to be fulfilled in all their horror and when the last morsel of the un happy wretch has been scrunched up i in carcerate the terrible matron under a cage standing in an earthen pan filled with sand early one morning ten days later i find her preparing for her confinement a silk network is first spun on the ground covering an extent about equal to the palm of ones handy it is coarse and shapeless but firmly fixed this is the floor on which the spider means to operate on this foundation which acts as a pro tection from the sand the lycosa fashions a round mat the size of a twofranc piece and made of superb white silk with a gentle uniform movement which might be regulated by the wheels of a delicate piece bf clock work the tip of the abdomen rises and falls each time touching the supporting base a little farther away until the extreme scope of the mechanism is attained then without the spiders moving her position the oscillation is resumed in the op posite direction by means of this alternate motion interspersed with numerous contacts a segment of the sheet is obtained of a very accurate texture when this is done the spider moves a little along a circular line and no the loom works in the same manner on another segment the silk disk a sort of hardly concave paten now no longer receives aught from the spinnerets in its centre the marginal belt alone increases ih thickness the piece thus becomes a bowlshaped porringer surrounded by a wide flat edge the time for the laying has come with one quick emission the viscous paleyellow eggs are laid in the basin where they heap to gether in the shape of a globe which projects largely outside the cavity the spinnerets are once more set going with short move ments as the tip of the abdomen rises and falls to weave the round mat they cover up the exposed hemisphere the result is a pill set in the middle of a circular carpet the legs hitherto idle are now working they take up and break ofif one by one the threads that keep the round mat stretched on the coarse supporting network at the same time the fangs grip this sheet lift it by de grees tear it from its base and fold it over upon the globe of eggs it is a laborious operation the whole edifice totters the floor collapses fouled with sand by a movement of the legs those soiled shreds are cast aside briefly by means of violent tugs of the fangs which pull and broomlike efforts of the legs which clear away the lycosa extri cates the bag of eggs and removes it as a clearcut mass free from any adhesion it is a whitesilk pill soft to the touch and glutinous its size is that of an average cherry an observant eye will notice run ning horizontally around the middle a fold which a needle is able to raise without break ing it this hem generally undistinguish able from the rest of the surface is none other than the edge of the circular mat drawn over the lower hemisphere the other hemisphere through which the youngsters will go out is less well fortified its only wrap per is the texture spun over the eggs imme diately after they were laid inside there is nothing but the eggs no mattress no soft eiderdown like that of the epeirae the lycosa indeed has no need to guard her eggs against the inclemencies of the winter for the hatching will take place long before the cold weather comes similarly the thomisus with her early brood takes good care not to incur useless expenditure she gives her eggs for their protection a simple purse of satin the work of spinning followed by that of tearing is continued for a whole morning from five to nine oclock worn out with fatigue the mother embraces her dear pill and remains motionless i shall see no more today next morning i find the spider car rying the bag of eggs slung from her stern henceforth until the hatching she does not leave go of the precious burden which fastened to the spinnerets by a short ligament drags and bumps along the ground with this load banging against her heels she goes about her business she walks or rests she seeks her prey attacks it and devours it should some accident cause the wallet to drop off it is soon replaced the spinnerets touch it somewhere anywhere and that is enough adhesion is at once restored the lycosa is a stayathome she never goes out except to snap up some game passing within her huntingdomains near the burrow at the end of august however it is not un usual to meet her roaming about dragging her wallet behind her her hesitations make one think that she is looking for her home which she has left for the moment and has a dif ficulty in finding why these rambles there are two rea sons first the pairing and then the making of the pill there is a lack of space in the burrow which provides only room enough for the spider engaged in long contempla tion now the preparations for the eggbag require an extensive flooring a supporting framework about the size of ones hand as my caged prisoner has shown us the lycosa has not so much space at her disposal in her well hence the necessity for coming out and working at her wallet in the open air doubt less in the quiet hours of the night the meeting with the male seems likewise to demand an excursion running the risk of being eaten alive will he venture to plunge into his ladys cave into a lair whence flight would be impossible it is very doubtful prudence demands that matters should take place outside here at least there is some chance of beating a hasty retreat which will enable the rash swain to escape the attacks of his horrible bride the interview in the open air lessens the danger without removing it entirely we had proof of this when wc caught the lycosa in the act of devouring her lover above ground in a part of the enclosure which had been broken for planting and which was therefore not suitable for the spiders es tablishment the burrow must have been some way off and the meeting of the pair took place at the very spot of the tragic catas trophe although he had a clear road the male was not quick enough in getting away and was duly eaten after this cannibal orgy does the lycosa go back home perhaps not for a while besides she would have to go out a second time to manufacture her pill on a level space of sufficient extent when the work is done some of them emancipate themselves think they will have a look at the country before retiring for good and all it is these whom we sometimes meet wandering aimlessly and dragging their bag behind them sooner or later however the vagrants return home and the month of august is not over before a straw rustled in any burrow will bring the mother up with her wallet slung behind her i am able to procure as many as i want and with them to indulge in certain experiments of the high est interest it is a sight worth seeing that of the ly cosa dragging her treasure after her never leaving it day or night sleeping or waking and defending it with a courage that strikes the beholder with awe if i try to take the bag from her she presses it to her breast in despair hangs on to my pincers bites them with her poisonfangs i can hear the dag gers grating on the steel no she would not allow herself to be robbed of the wallet with impunity if my fingers were not supplied with an implement by dint of pulling and shaking the pill with the forceps i take it from the lycosa who protests furiously i fling her in ex change a pill taken from another lycosa it is at once se in the fangs embraced by the legs and hung on to the spinneret her own or anothers it is all one to the spider who walks away proudly with the alien wal let this was to be expected in view of the similarity of the pills exchanged a test of another kind with a second sub ject renders the mistake more striking i substitute in the place of the lawful bag which i have removed the work of the silky epeira the colour and softness of the ma terial are the same in both cases but the shape is quite different the stolen object is a globe the object presented in exchange is an elliptical conoid studded with angular pro jections along the edge of the base the spider takes no account of this dissimilarity she promptly glues the queer bag to her spin nerets and is as pleased as though she were in possession of her real pill my experimental villainies have no other consequences beyond an ephemeral carting when hatchingtime arrives early in the case of the lycosa late in that of the epeira the gulled spider aban dons the strange bag and pays it no further attention let us penetrate yet deeper into the wallet bearers stupidity after depriving the ly cosa of her eggs i throw her a ball of cork roughly polished with a file and of the same size as the stolen pill she accepts the corky substance so different from the silk purse without the least demur one would have thought that she would recognize her mistake with those eight eyes of hers which gleam like precious stones the silly creature pays no attention lovingly she embraces the cork ball fondles it with her palpi fastens it to her spinnerets and thenceforth drags it after her as though she were dragging her own bag let us give another the choice between the imitation and the real the rightful pill and the cork ball are placed together on the floor of the jar will the spider be able to know the one that belongs to her the fool is in capable of doing so she makes a wild rush and seizes haphazard at one time her prop erty at another my sham product what ever is first touched becomes a good capture and is forthwith hung up if i increase the number of cork balls if i put in four or five of them with the real pill among them it is seldom that the lycosa recovers her own property attempts at en quiry attempts at selection there are none whatever she snaps up at random she sticks to be it good or bad as there are more of the sham pills of cork these are the most often se by the spider this obtuseness baffles me can the animal be deceived by the soft contact of the cork i replace the cork balls by pellets of cotton or paper kept in their round shape with a few bands of thread both are very readily ac cepted instead of the real bag that has been removed can the illusion be due to the colouring which is light in the cork and not unlike the tint of the silk globe when soiled with a little earth while it is white in the paper and the cotton when it is identical with that of the original pill i give the lycosa in ex change for her work a pellet of silk thread chosen of a fine red the brightest of all colours the uncommon pill is as readily accepted and as jealously guarded as the others we will leave the walletbearer alone we know all that we want to know about her poverty of intellect let us wait for the hatching which takes place in the first fort night in september as they come out of the pill the youngsters to the number of about a couple of a hundred clamber on the spiders back and there sit motionless jammed close together forming a sort of bark of mingled legs and paunches the mother is unrecognizable under this live man tilla when the hatching is over the wallet is loosened from the spinnerets and cast aside as a worthless rag the little ones are very good none stirs none tries to get more room for himself at his neighbours expense what are they doing there so quietly they allow them selves to be carted about like the young of the opossum whether she sit in long medi tation at the bottom of her den or come to the orifice in mild weather to bask in the sun the lycosa never throws off her greatcoat of swarming youngsters until the fine season comes if in the middle of winter in january or february i happen out in the fields to ransack the spiders dwelling after the rain snow and frost have battered it and as a rule dismantled the bastion at the entrance i al ways find her at home still full of vigour still carrying her family this vehicular upbringing lasts five or six months at least without interruption the celebrated ameri can carrier the opossum who emancipates her offspring after a few weeks carting cuts a poor figure beside the lycosa what do the little ones eat on the ma ternal spine nothing so far as i know i a do not see them grow larger i find them at the tardy period of their emancipa tion just as they were when they left the bag during the bad season the mother herself is extremely abstemious at long intervals she accepts in my jars a belated locust whom i have captured for her benefit in the sunnier nooks in order to keep herself in condition as when she is dug up in the course of my winter excavations she must therefore sometimes break her fast and come out in search of prey without of course discarding her live mantilla the expedition has its dangers the youngsters may be brushed off by a blade of grass what becomes of them when they have a fall does the mother give them a thought does she come to their assistance and help them to regain their place on her back not at all the affection of a spiders heart divided among some hun dreds can spare but a very feeble portion to each the lycosa hardly troubles whether one youngster fall from his place or six or all of them she waits impassively for the victims of the mishap to get out of their own difficulty which they do for that matter and very nimbly i sweep the whole family from the back of one of my boarders with a hairpencil not a sign of emotion not an attempt at search on the part of the denuded one after trotting about a little on the sand the dis lodged youngsters find these here those there one or other of the mothers legs spread wide in a circle by means of these climbingpoles they swarm to the top and soon the dorsal group resumes its original form not one of the lot is missing the lycosas sons know their trade as acrobats to perfection the mother need not trouble her head about their fall with a sweep of the pencil i make the family of one spider fall around another laden with her own family the dislodged ones nimbly scramble up the legs and climb on the back of their new mother who kindly allows them to behave as though they be longed to her there is no room on the abdomen the regulation restingplace which is already occupied by the real sons the in vaders thereupon encamp on the front part beset the thorax and change the carrier into a horrible pincushion that no longer bears the least resemblance to a spider form meanwhile the sufferer raises no sort of pro test against this access of family she placidly accepts them all and walks them all about the youngsters on their side are unable to distinguish between what is permitted and forbidden remarkable acrobats that they are they climb on the first spider that comes along even when of a different species pro vided that she be of a fair size i place them in the presence of a big epeira marked with a white cross on a paleorange ground epeira pallida oliv the little ones as soon as they are dislodged from the back of the ly cosa their mother clamber up the stranger without hesitation intolerant of these familiarities the spider shakes the leg encroached upon and flings the intruders to a distance the as sault is doggedly resumed to such good purpose that a dozen succeed in hoisting them selves to the top the epeira who is not accustomed to the tickling of such a load turns over on her back and rolls on the ground in the manner of a donkey when his hide is itching some are lamed some are even crushed this does not deter the others who repeat the escalade as soon as the epeira is on her legs again then come more somer saults more rollings on the back until the giddy swarm are all discomfited and leave the spider in peace llif ichelet has told us how as a printers apprentice in a cellar he es tablished amicable relations with a spider at a certain hour of the day a ray of sun light would glint through the window of the gloomy workshop and light up the little com positors case then his eightlegged neigh bour would come down from her web and take her share of the sunshine on the edge of the case the boy did not interfere with her he welcomed the trusting visitor as a friend and as a pleasant diversion from the long monotony when we lack the society of our fellowmen we take refuge in that of animals without always losing by the change i do not thank god suffer from the melancholy of a cellar my solitude is gay with light and verdure i attend whenever jules michelct author of loiseau and linsecle in addition to the historical works for which he is chiefly known as a lad he helped his father a printer by trade ih setting type  translators note i please the fields high festival the thrushes concert the crickets symphony and yet my friendly commerce with the spider is marked by an even greater devotion than the young typesetters i admit her to the intimacy of my study i make room for her among my books i set her in the sun on my windowledge i visit her assiduously at her home in the country the object of our relations is not to create a means of escape from the petty worries of life pinpricks whereof i have my share like other men a very large share indeed i propose to sub mit to the spider a host of questions whereto at times she condescends to reply to what fair problems does not the habit of frequenting her give risel to set them forth worthily the marvellous art which the little printer was to acquire were not too much one needs the pen of a michelet and i have but a rough blunt pencil let us try nevertheless even when poorly clad truth is still beautiful i will therefore once more take up the story of the spiders instinct a story of which the preceding chapters have given but a very rough idea since i wrote those earlier es says my field of observation has been greatly extended my notes have been enriched by new and most remarkable facts it is right that i should employ them for the purpose of a more detailed biography the exigencies of order and clearness ex pose me it is true to occasional repetitions this is inevitable when one has to marshal in an harmonious whole a thousand items culled from day to day often unexpectedly and bearing no relation one to the other the observer is not master of his time oppor tunity leads him and by unsuspected ways a certain question suggested by an earlier fact finds no reply until many years after its scope moreover is amplified and completed with views collected on the road in a work therefore of this fragmentary character rep etitions necessary for the due coordination of ideas are inevitable i shall be as sparing of them as i can let us once more introduce our old friends the epeira and the lycosa who are the most important spiders in my district the nar bonne lycosa or blackbellied tarantula chooses her domicile in the waste pebbly lands beloved of the thyme her dwelling a fortress rather than a villa is a burrow about nine inches deep and as wide as the neck of a claretbottle the direction is per pendicular in so far as obstacles frequent in a soil of this kind permit a bit of gravel can be extracted and hoisted outside but a flint is an immovable boulder which the spider avoids by giving a bend to her gallery if more such are met with the residence be comes a winding cave with stone vaults with lobbies communicating by means of sharp passages this lack of plan has no attendant draw backs so well does the owner from long habit know every comer and storey of her mansion if any interesting buzz occur overhead the lycosa climbs up from her rugged manor with the same speed as from a vertical shaft perhaps she even finds the windings and turnings an advantage when she has to drag into her den a prey that hap pens to defend itself as a rule the end of the burrow widens into a sidechamber a lounge or restingplace where the spider meditates at length and is content to lead a life of quiet when her belly is full a silk coating but a scanty one for the lycosa has not the wealth of silk possessed by the weaving spiders lines the walls of the tube and keeps the loose earth from fall ing this plaster which cements the inco hesive and smooths the rugged parts is re served more particularly for the top of the gallery near the mouth here in the day time if things be peaceful all around the lycosa stations herself either to enjoy the warmth of the sun her great delight or to lie in wait for game the threads of the silk lining afford a firm hold to the claws on every side whether the object be to sit motionless for hours revelling in the light and heat or to pounce upon the passing prey around the orifice of the burrow rises to a greater or lesser height a circular parapet formed of tiny pebbles twigs and straps bor rowed from the dry leaves of the neighbour ing grasses all more or less dexterously tied together and cemented with silk this work of rustic architecture is never missing even though it be no more than a mere pad when she reaches maturity and is once settled the lycosa becomes eminently do mesticated i have been living in close com munion with her for the last three years i have installed her in large earthen pans on the windowsills f my study and i have her daily under my eyes well it is very rarely that i happen on her outside a few inches from her hole back to which she bolts at the least alarm we may take it then that when not in captivity the lycosa does not go far afield to gather the wherewithal to build her para pet and that she makes shift with what she finds upon her threshold in these conditions the buildingstones are soon ex hausted and the masonry ceases for lack of materials the wish came over me to see what di mensions the circular edifice would assume if the spider were given an unlimited supply with captives to whom i myself act as pur veyor the thing is easy enough were it only with a view to helping whoso may one day care to continue these relations with the big spider of the wastelands let me describe how my subjects are housed a goods earthenware pan some nine inches deep is filled with a red clayey earth rich in pebbles similar in short to that of the places haunted by the lycosa properly moistened into a paste the artificial soil is heaped layer by layer around a central reed of a bore equal to that of the animals natural burrow when the receptacle is filled to the top i withdraw the reed which leaves a yawning perpendicular shaft i thus obtain the abode which shall replace that of the fields to find the hermit to inhabit it is merely the matter of a walk ii the neighbourhood when removed from her own dwelling which is turned topsyturvy by my trowel and placed in possession of the den produced by my art the lycosa at once disappears into that den she does not come out again seeks nothing better elsewhere a large wire gauze cover rests on the soil in the pan and prevents escape in any case the watch in this respect makes no demands upon my diligence the priso ner is satisfied with her new abode and mani fests no regret for her natural burrow there is no attempt at flight on her part let me not omit to add that each pan must receive not more than one inhabitant the lycosa is very intolerant to her a neigh hour is fair game to be eaten without scruple when one has might on ones side time was when unaware of this fierce intolerance which is more savage still at breedingtime i saw hideous orgies perpetrated in my over stocked cages i shall have occasion to de scribe those tragedies later let us meanwhile consider the isolated ly cosae they do not touch up the dwelling which i have moulded for them with a bit of reed at most now and again perhaps with the object of forming a lounge or bedroom at the bottom they fling out a few loads of rub bish but all little by little build the kerb that is to edge the mouth i have given them plenty of firstrate ma terials far superior to those which they use when left to their own resources these con sist first for the foundations of little smooth stones some of which are as large as an almond with this roadmetal are mingled short strips of raphia or palmfibre flexible ribbons easily bent these stand for the spiders usual basketwork consisting of slen der stalks and dry blades of grass lastly by way of an unprecedented treasure never yet employed by a lycosa i place at ihy cap tives disposal some thick threads of wool cut into inch lengths as i wish at the same time to find out whether my animals with the magnificent lenses of their eyes are able to distinguish colours and prefer one colour to another i mix up bits of wool of different hues there are red green white and yellow pieces if the spider have any preference she can choose where she pleases the lycosa always works at night a re grettable circumstance which does not allow me to follow the workers methods i see the result and that is all were i to visit the buildingyard by the light of a lantern i should be no wiser the animal which is very shy would at once dive into its lair and i should have lost my sleep for nothing furthermore she is not a very diligent labourer she likes to take her time two or three bits of wool or raphia placed in posi tion represent a whole nights work and to this slowness we must add long spells of utter idleness two months pass and the result of my liberality surpasses my expectations possess ing more windfalls than they know what to do with all picked up in their immediate neighbourhood my lycoss have built them selves donjonkeeps the like of which their race has not yet known around the orifice on a slightly sloping bank small flat smooth stones have been laid to form a broken flagged pavement the larger stones which are cyclopean blocks compared with the size of the animal that has shifted them are em ployed as abundantly as the others on this rockwork stands the donjon it is an interlacing of raphia and bits of wool picked up at random without distinction of shade red and white green and yellow are mixed without any attempt at order the lycosa is indifferent to the joys of colour the ultimate result is a sort of muff a couple of inches high bands of silk sup plied by the spinnerets unite the pieces so that the whole resembles a coarse fabric without being absolutely faultless for there are always awkward pieces on the outside which the worker could not handle the gaudy building is not devoid of merit the bird lining its nest would do no better whoso sees the curious manycoloured productions in my pans takes them for an outcome of my industry contrived with a view to some ex perimental mischief and his surprise is great when i confess who the real author is no one would ever believe the spider capable of constructing such a monument it goes without saying that in a state of liberty on our barren wastelands the ly cosa does not indulge in such sumptuous architecture i have given the reason she is too great a stayathome to go in search of materials and she makes use of the limited resources which she finds around her bits of earth small chips of stone a few twigs a few withered grasses that is all or nearly all wherefore the work is generally quite modest and reduced to a parapet that hardly attracts attention my captives teach us that when materials are plentiful especially textile materials that remove all fears of landslip the lycosa de lights in tall turrets she understands the art of donjonbuilding and puts it into practice as often as she possesses the means this art is akin to another from which it is apparently derived if the sun be fierce or if rain threaten the lycosa closes the en trance to her dwelling with a silken trellis work wherein she embeds different matters often the remnants of victims which she has devoured the ancient gael nailed the heads of his vanquished enemies to the door of his hut in the same way the fierce spider sticks the skulls of her prey into the lid of her cave these lumps look very well on the ogres roof but we must be careful not to mistake them for warlike trophies the ani mal knows nothing of our barbarous bravado everything at the threshold of the burrow is used indiscriminately fragments of locust vegetable remains and especially particles of earth a dragonflys head baked by the sun is as good as a bit of gravel and no better and so with silk and all sorts of tiny materials the lycosa builds a lidded cap to the entrance of her home i am not well ac quainted with the reasons that prompt her to barricade herself indoors particularly as the seclusion is only temporary and varies greatly in duration i obtain precise details from a tribe of lycosae wherewith the enclosure as will be seen later happens to be thronged in consequence of my investigations into the dis persal of the family at the time of the tropical august heat i see my lycosae now this batch now that building at the entrance to the burrow a con vex ceiling which is difficult to distinguish from the surrounding soil can it be to pro tect themselves from the toovivid light this is doubtful for a few days later though the power of the sun remain the same the roof is broken open and the spider re appears at her door where she revels in the torrid heat of the dogdays later when october comes if it be rainy weather she retires once more under a roof as though she were guarding herself against the damp let us not be too positive of any thing however often when it is raining hard the spider bursts her ceiling and leaves her house open to the skies perhaps the lid is only put on for serious domestic events notably for the laying i do in fact perceive young lycosse who shut themselves in before they have attained the dignity of motherhood and who reappear some time later with the bag containing the eggs hung to their stem the inference that they close the door with the object of securing greater quiet while spinning the maternal cocoon would not be in keeping with the unconcern displayed by the majority i find some who lay their eggs in an open burrow i come upon some who weave their cocoon and cram it with eggs in the open air before they even own a residence in short i do not succeed in fathoming the reasons that cause the burrow to be closed no matter what the weather hot or cold wet or dry the fact remains that the lid is broken and repaired repeatedly sometimes on the same day in spite of the earthy casing the silk woof gives it the requisite pliancy to cleave when pushed by the anchorite and to rip open without falling into ruins swept back to the circumference of the mouth and increased by the wreckage of further ceilings it becomes a parapet which the lycosa raises by degrees in her long moments of leisure the bastion which surmounts the burrow therefore takes its origin from the temporary lid the tur ret derives from the split ceiling what is the purpose of this turret my pans will tell us that an enthusiastic votary of the chase so long as she is not permanently fixed the lycosa once she has set up house prefers to lie in ambush and wait for the quarry every day when the heat is great est i see my captives come up slowly from underground and lean upon the battlements of their woolly castlekeep they are then really magnificent in their stately gravity with their swelling belly contained within the aperture their head outside their glassy eyes staring their legs gathered for a spring for hours and hours they wait motionless bath ing voluptuously in the sun should a titbit to her liking happen to pass forthwith the watcher darts from her tall tower swift as an arrow from the bow with a daggerthrust in the neck she stabs the jugular of the locust dragonfly or other prey whereof i am the purveyor and she as quickly scales the donjon and retires with her capture the performance is a wonderful exhibition of skill and speed very seldom is a quarry missed provided that it pass at a convenient distance within the range of the huntress bound but if the prey be at some distance for instance on the wire of the cage the lycosa takes no notice of it scorning to go in pursuit she allows it to roam at will she never strikes except when sure of her stroke she achieves this by means of her tower hiding behind the wall she sees the stranger advancing keeps her eyes on him and suddenly pounces when he comes within reach these abrupt tactics make the thing a certainty though he were winged and swift of flight the un wary one who approaches the ambush is lost this presumes it is true an exemplary patience on the lycosas part for the burrow has naught that can serve to entice victims at best the ledge provided by the turret may at rare intervals tempt some weary wayfarer to use it as a restingplace but if the quarry do not come today it is sure to come tomorrow the qext day or later for the locusts hop innumerable in the waste land nor are they always able to regulate their leaps some day or other chance is bound to bring one of them within the pur lieus of the burrow this is the moment to spring upon the pilgrim from the ramparts until then we maintain a stoical vigilance we shall dine when we can but we shall end by dining the lycosa therefore well aware of these lingering eventualities waits and is not unduly distressed by a prolonged abstinence she has an accommodating stomach which is satisfied to be gorged today and to remain empty afterwards for goodness knows how long i have sometimes neglected my cater ingduties for weeks at a time and my boarders have been none the worse for it after a more or less protracted fast they do not pine away but are smitten with a wolf like hunger all these ravenous eaters are alike they guzzle to excess today in antici pation of tomorrows dearth in her youth before she has a burrow the lycosa earns her living in another manner clad in grey like her elders but without the blackvelvet apron which she receives on at taining the marriageable age she roams among the scrubby grass this is true hunt ing should a suitable quarry heave in sight the spider pursues it drives it from its shel ters follows it hotfoot the fugitive gains the heights makes as though to fly away he has not the time with an upward leap the lycosa grabs him before he can rise i am charmed with the agility wherewith my yearling boarders seize the flies which i provide for them in vain does the fly take refuge a couple of inches up on some blade of grass with a sudden spring into the air the spider pounces on the prey no cat is quicker in catching her mouse but these are the feats of youth not handi capped by obesity later when a heavy paunch dilated with eggs and silk has to be trailed along those gymnastic performances become impracticable the lycosa then digs herself a settled abode a huntingbox and sits in her watchtower on the lookout for game when and how is the burrow obtained wherein the lycosa once a vagrant now a stayathome is to spend the remainder of her long life we arc in autumn the weather is already turning cool this is how the field cricket sets to work as long as the days are fine and the nights not too cold the future chorister of spring rambles over the fallows careless of a local habitation at critical moments the cover of a dead leaf provides him with a temporary shelter in the end the burrow the permanent dwell ing is dug as the inclement season draws nigh the lycosa shares the crickets views like him she finds a thousand pleasures in the vagabond life with september comes the nuptial badge the blackvelvet bib the spiders meet at night by the soft moon light they romp together they eat the be loved shortly after the wedding by day they scour the country they track the game on the shortpile grassy carpet they take their fill of the joys of the sun that is much better than solitary meditation at the bottom of a well and so it is not rare to see young mothers dragging their bag of eggs or even already carrying their family and as yet with out a home in october it is time to settle down wc then in fact find two sorts of burrows whidi differ in diameter the larger bottle neck burrows belong to the old matrons who have owned their house for two years at least the smaller of the width of a thick leadpencil contain the young mothers bom that year by dint of long and leisurely alterations the novices earths will increase in depth as well as in diameter and become roomy abodes similar to those of the grand mothers in both we find the owner and her family the latter sometimes already hatched and sometimes still enclosed in the satin wallet seeing no diggingtools such as the excava tion of the dwelling seemed to me to require i wondered whether the lycosa might not avail herself of some chance gallery the work of the cicada or the earthworm this ready made tunnel thought i must shorten the labours of the spider who appears to be so badly off for tools she would only have to enlarge it and put it in order i was wrong the burrow is excavated from start to finish by her unaided labour then where are the diggingimplements we think of the legs of the claws we think of them but reflection tells us that tools such as these would not do they are too long and too difficult to wield in a confined space what is required is the miners shorthandled pick wherewith to drive hard to insert to lever and to extract what is required is the sharp point that enters the earth and crumbles it into fragments there remain the ly cosas fangs delicate weapons which we at first hesitate to associate with such work so illogical does it seem to dig a pit with surgeons scalpels the fangs are a pair of sharp curved points which when at rest crook like a finger and take shelter between two strong pillars the cat sheathes her claws under the velvet of the paw to preserve their edge and sharp ness in the same way the lycosa protects her poisoned daggers by folding them within the case of two powerful columns which come plumb on the surface and contain the muscles that work them well this surgical outfit intended for stabbing the jugular artery oif the prey sud denly becomes a pickaxe and does rough navvys work to witness the underground digging is impossible but we can at least with the exercise of a little patience see the rubbish carted away if i watch my cap tives without tiring at a very early hour  for the work takes place mostly at night and at long intervals  in the end i catch them coming up with a load contrary to what i expected the legs take no part in the carting it is the mouth that acts as the barrow a tiny ball of earth is held between the fangs and is supported by the palpi or feelers which are little arms employed in the service of the mouthparts the lycosa descends cautiously from her turret goes to some distance to get rid of her burden and quickly dives down again to bring up more we have seen enough we know that the lycosas fangs those lethal weapons are not afraid to bite into clay and gravel they knead the excavated rubbish into pellets take up the mass of earth and carry it outside the rest follows naturally it is the fangs that dig delve and extract how finelytempered they must be not to be blunted by this well sinkers work and to do duty presently in the surgical operation of stabbing the neck i have said that the repairs and extensions of the burrow are made at long intervals from time to time the circular parapet re ceives additions and becomes a little higher less frequently still the dwelling is enlarged and deepened as a rule the mansion re mains as it was for a whole season towards the end of winter in march more than at any other period the lycosa seems to wish to give herself a little more space this is the moment to subject her to certain tests we know that the field cricket when re moved from his burrow and caged under conditions that would allow him to dig him self a new home should the fit seize him prefers to tramp from one casual shelter to another or rather abandons every idea of creating a permanent residence there is a short season whereat the instinct for build ing a subterranean gallery is imperatively aroused when this season is past the ex cavating artist if accidentally deprived of his abode becomes a wandering bohemian care less of a lodging he has forgotten his talents and he sleeps out that the bird the nestbuilder should neg lect its art when it has no brood to care for is perfectly logical it builds for its family not for itself but what shall we say of the cricket who is exposed to a thousand mis haps when away from home the protec tion of a roof would be of great use to him and the giddypate does not give it a thought though he is very strong and more capable than ever of digging with his powerful jaws what reason can we allege for this neglect none unless it be that the season of strenuous burrowing is past the instincts have a calendar of their own at the given hour suddenly they awaken as suddenly afterwards they fall asleep the ingenious become incompetent when the prescribed period is ended on a subject of this kind we can consult the spider of the wastelands i catch an old lycosa in the fields and house her that same day under wire in a burrow where i have prepared a soil to her liking if by my con trivances and with a bit of reed i have previously moulded a burrow roughly repre senting the one from which i took her the spider enters it forthwith and seems pleased with her new residence the product of my art is accepted as her lawful property and undergoes hardly any alterations in course of time a bastion is erected around the ori fice the top of the gallery is cemented with silk and that is all in this establishment of my building the animals behaviour remains what it would be under natural conditions but place the lycosa on the surface of the ground without first shaping a burrow what will the homeless spider do dig her self a dwelling one would think she has the strength to do so she is in the prime of life besides the soil is similar to that whence i ousted her and suits the operation perfectly we therefore expect to see the spider settled before long in a shaft of her own construction we are disappointed weeks pass and not an effort is made not one demoralised by the absence of an ambush the lycosa hardly vouchsafes a glance at the game which i serve up the crickets pass within her reach in vain most often she scorns them she slowly wastes away with fasting and bore dom at length she dies take up your miners trade again poor fool i make yourself a home since you know how to and life will be sweet to you for many a long day yet the weather is fine and victuals plentiful dig delve go under ground where safety lies like an idiot you refrain and you perish why because the craft which you were wont to ply is forgotten because the days of patient digging are past and your poor brain is un able to work back to do a second time what has been done already is beyond your wit for all your meditative air you cannot solve the problem of how to reconstruct that which is vanished and gone let us now see what we can do with younger lycoss who are at the burrowing stage i dig out five or six at the end of february they are half the size of the old ones their burrows are equal in diameter to my little finger rubbish freshly spread around the pit bears witness to the recent date of the excavations relegated to their wire cages these young lycoss behave differently according as the soil placed at their disposal is or is not al ready provided with a burrow made by me a burrow is hardly the word i give them but the nucleus of a shaft about an inch deep to lure them on when in possession of this rudimentary lair the spider does not hesitate to pursue the work which i have in terrupted in the fields at night she digs with a will i can see this by the heap of rubbish flung aside she at last obtains a house to suit her a house surmounted by the usual turret the others on the contrary those for whom the thrust of my pencil has not con trived an entrancehall representing to a cer tain extent the natural gallery whence i dis lodged them absolutely refuse to work and they die not withstanding the abundance of provisions they first pursue the seasons task they were digging when i caught them and car ried away by the enthusiasm of their activity they go on digging inside my cages taken in by my decoyshaft they deepen the imprint of the pencil as though they were deepening their real vestibule they do not begin their labours over again they continue them the second not having this inducement this semblance of a burrow mistaken for their own work forsake the idea of digging and allow themselves to die because they would have to travel back along the chain of actions and to resume the pickstrokes of the start to begin all over again requires reflection a quality wherewith they are not endowed to the insect  and we have seen this in many earlier cases  what is done is done and cannot be taken up again the hands of a watch do not move backwards the insect behaves in much the same way its activity urges it in one direction ever forwards with out allowing it to retrace its steps even when an accident makes this necessary what the masonbees and the others taught us erewhile the lycosa now confirms in her manner incapable of taking fresh pains to build herself a second dwelling when the first is done for she will go on the tramp she will break into a neighbours house she will run the risk of being eaten should she not prove the stronger but she will never think of making herself a home by starting afresh what a strange intellect is that of the animal a mixture of mechanical routine and subtle brainpower does it contain gleams that contrive wishes that pursue a definite object following in the wake of so many others the lycosa warrants us in entertaining a doubt tor three weeks and more the lycosa trails the bag of eggs hanging to her spinnerets the reader will remember the ex periments described in the third chapter of this volume particularly those with the cork ball and the thread pellet which the spider so fool ishly accepts in exchange for the real pill well this exceedingly dullwitted mother sat isfied with aught that knocks against her heels is about to make us wonder at her devotion whether she come up from her shaft to lean upon the kerb and bask in the sun whether she suddenly retire underground in the face of danger or whether she be roaming the country before settling down never does she let go her precious bag that very cumbrous burden in walking climbing or leaping if by some accident it become detached from the fastening to which it is hung she flings herself madly on her treasure and lovingly embraces it ready to bite whoso would take it from her i myself am sometimes the thief i then hear the points of the poisonfangs grinding against the steel of my pincers which tug in one direction while the lycosa tugs in the other but let us leave the animal alone with a quick touch of the spinnerets the pill is re stored to its place and the spider strides off still menacing towards the end of summer all the house holders old or young whether in captivity on the windowsill or at liberty in the paths of the enclosure supply me daily with the following improving sight in the morning as soon as the sun is hot and beats upon their burrow the anchorites come up from the bottom with their bag and station themselves at the opening long siestas on the threshold in the sun are the order of the day throughout the fine season but at the present time the position adopted is a different one formerly the lycosa came out into the sun for htt own sake leaning on the parapet she had the front half of her body outside the pit and the hinder half inside the eyes took their fill of light the belly re mained in the dark when carrying her egg bag the spider reverses the posture the front is in the pit the rear outside with her hind legs she holds the white pill bulging with germs lifted above the entrance gently she turns and returns it so as to present every side to the lifegiving rays and this goes on for half the day as long as the temperature is high and it is repeated daily with exquisite patience during three or four weeks to hatch its eggs the bird covers them with the quilt of its breast it strains them to the fur nace of its heart the lycosa turns hers in front of the hearth of hearths she gives them the sun as an incubator in the early days of september the young ones who have been some time hatched are ready to come out the pill rips open along the middle fold we read of the origin of this fold in an earlier chapter does the mother feeling the brood quicken inside the satin wrapper herself break open the vessel at the opportune moment it seems probable on the other hand there may be a spontaneous bursting such as we shall see later in the banded epeiras balloon a tough wallet which opens a breach of its own accord long after the mother has ceased to exist chapter iii of the present volume  translators note the whole family emerges from the bag straightway then and there the youngsters climb to the mothers back as for the empty bag now a worthless shred it is flung out of the burrow the lycosa does not give it a fur ther thought huddled together sometimes in two or three layers according to their num ber the little ones cover the whole back of the mother who for seven or eight months to come will carry her family night and day nowhere can we hope to see a more edifying domestic picture than that of the lycosa clothed in her young from time to time i meet a little band of gipsies passing along the highroad on their way to some neighbouring fair the new bom babe mewls on the mothers breast in a hammock formed out of a kerchief the last weaned is carried pickaback a third tod dles clinging to its mothers skirts others fol low closely the biggest in the rear ferreting in the blackberryladen hedgerows it is a magnificent spectacle of happygolucky fruit fulness they go their way penniless and re joicing the sun is hot and the earth is fertile but how this picture pales before that of the lycosa that incomparable gipsy whose brats are numbered by the hundred and one and ail of them from september to april without a moments respite find room upon the patient creatures back where they are content to lead a tranquil life and to be carted about the little ones are very good none moves none seeks a quarrel with his neighbours clinging together they form a continuous drapery a shaggy ulster under which the mother becomes unrecognizable is it an ani mal a fluff of wool a cluster of small seeds fastened to one another tis impossible to tell at the first glance the equilibrium of this living blanket is not so firm but that falls often occur especially when the mother climbs from indoors and comes to the threshold to let the little ones take the sun the least brush against the gal lery unseats a part of the family the mishap is not serious the hen fidgeting about her chicks looks for the strays calls them gath ers them together the lycosa knows not these maternal alarms impassively she leaves those who drop off to manage their own dif ficulty which they do with wonderful quick ness commend me to those youngsters for getting up without whining dusting them selves and resuming their seat in the saddle i the unhorsed ones promptly find a leg of the mother the usual climbingpole they swarm up it ais fast as they can and recover their places on the bearers back the living bark of animals is reconstructed in the twinkling of an eye to speak here of motherlove were i think extravagant the lycosas affection for her offspring hardly surpasses that of the plant which is unacquainted with any tender feeling and nevertheless bestows the nicest and most delicate care upon its seeds the animal in many cases knows no other sense of motherhood what cares the lycosa for her brood she accepts anothers as readily as her own she is satisfied so long as her back is burdened with a swarming crowd whether it issue from her ovaries or elsewhence there is no question here of real maternal affection i have described elsewhere the prowess of the copris watching over cells that are not a species of dungbeetle cf the life and love of the insect by j henri fabre translated by alexander teixeira de mattos chap v  translators note her handiwork and do not contain her off spring with a zeal which even the addi tional labour laid upon her does not easily weary she removes the mildew from the alien dungballs which far exceed the regular nests in number she gently scrapes and polishes and repairs them she listens to them attentively and enquires by ear into each nurslings prog ress her real collection could not receive greater care her own family or anothers it is all one to her the lycosa is equally indifferent i take a hairpencil and sweep the living burden from one of my spiders making it fall close to another covered with her little ones the evicted youngsters scamper about find the new mothers legs outspread nimbly clamber up these and mount on the back of the oblig ing creature who quietly lets them have their way they slip in among the others or when the layer is too thick push to the front and pass from the abdomen to the thorax and even to the head though leaving the region of the eyes uncovered it does not do to blind the bearer the common safety de mands that they know this and respect the lenses of the eyes however populous the as sembly be the whole animal is now covered with a swarming carpet of young all except the legs which must preserve their freedom of action and the under part of the body where contact with the ground is to be feared my pencil forces a third family upon the al ready overburdened spider and this too is peacefully accepted the youngsters huddle up closer lie one on top of the other in layers and room is found for all the lycosa has lost the last semblance of an animal has be come a nameless bristling thing that walks about falls are frequent and are followed by continual climbings i perceive that i have reached the limits not of the bearers goodwill but of equilibrium the spider would adopt an indefinite further number of foundlings if the dimensions of her back afforded them a firm hold let us be content with this let us restore each family to its mother drawing at random from the lot there must necessarily be interchanges but that is of no importance real children and adopted children are the same thing in the lycosas eyes one would like to know if apart from my artifices in circumstances where i do not in terferc the goodnatured drynurse sometimes burdens herself with a supplementary family it would also be interesting to learn what comes of this association of lawful offspring and strangers i have ample materials where with to obtain an answer to both questions i have housed in the same cage two elderly matrons laden with youngsters each has her home as far removed from the other as the size of the common pan permits the distance is nine inches or more it is not enough prox imity soon kindles fierce jealousies between those intolerant creatures who are obliged to live far apart so as to secure adequate hunt inggrounds one morning i catch the two harridans fighting out their quarrel on the floor the loser is laid flat upon her back the victress belly to belly with her adversary clutches her with her legs and prevents her from moving a limb both have their poison fangs wide open ready to bite without yet daring so mutually formidable are they after a certain period of waiting during which the pair merely ex change threats the stronger of the two the one on top closes her lethal engine and grinds the head of the prostrate foe then she calmly devours the deceased by small mouth fuls now what do the youngsters do while their mother is being eaten easily consoled heed less of the atrocious scene they climb on the conquerors back and quietly take their places among the lawful family the ogress raises no objection accepts them as her own she makes a meal off the mother and adopts the orphans let us add that for many months yet until the final emancipation comes she will carry them without drawing any distinction between them and her own young henceforth the two families united in so tragic a fashion will form but one we see how greatly out of place it would be to speak in this connection of motherlove and its fond manifestations does the lycosa at least feed the young lings who for seven months swarm upon her back does she invite them to the banquet when she has secured a prize i thought so at first and anxious to assist at the family re past i devoted special attention to watching the mothers eat as a rule the prey is consumed out of sight in the bur row but sometimes also a meal is taken on the threshold in the open air besides it is easy to rear the lycosa and her family in a wiregauze cage with a layer of earth where in the captive will never dream of sinking a well such work being out of season every thing then happens out of doors well while the mother munches chews ex presses the juices and swallows the youngsters do not budge from their campingground on her back not one quits its place nor gives a sign of wishing to slip down and join in the meal nor does the mother extend an invitation to them to come and recruit them selves nor put any broken victuals aside for them she feeds and the others look on or rather remain indifferent to what is happen ing their perfect quiet during the lycosas feast points to the possession of a stomach that knows no cravings then with what are they sustained during their seven months upbringing on the moth ers back one conceives a notion of exuda tions supplied by the bearers body in which case the young would feed on their mother after the manner of parasitic vermin and gradually drain her strength we must abandon this notion never ar they seen to put tlieir mouths to the skin that should be a sort of teat to them on the other hand the lycosa far from being exhausted and shrivelling keeps perfectly well and plump she has the same potbelly when she finishes rearing her young as when she began she has not lost weight far from it on the contrary she has put on flesh she has gained the wherewithal to beget a new family next summer one as numerous as todays once more with what do the little ones keep up their strength we do not like to suggest reserves supplied by the egg as recti fying the beasties expenditure of vital force especially when we consider that those re serves themselves so close to nothing must be econom in view of the silk a material of the highest importance of which a plenti ful use will be made presently there must be other powers at play in the tiny animals machinery total abstinence from food could be under stood if it were accompanied by inertia im mobility is not life but the young lycosac although usually quiet on their mothers back are at all times ready for exercise and for agile swarming when they fall from the ma temal perambulator they briskly pick them selves up briskly scramble up a leg and make their way to the top it is a splendidly nim ble and spirited performance besides once seated they have to keep a firm balance in the mass they have to stretch and stiffen their little limbs in order to hang on to their neigh bours as a matter of fact there is no abso lute rest for them now physiology teaches us that not a fibre works without some ex penditure of energy the animal which can be likened in no small measure to our indus trial machines demands on the one hand the renovation of its organism which wears out with movement and on the other the mainte nance of the heat transformed into action we can compare it with the locomotiveen gine as the iron horse performs its work it gradually wears out its pistons its rods its wheels its boilertubes all of which have to be made good from time to time the founder and the smith repair it supply it so to speak with plastic food the food that becomes embodied with the whole and forms part of it but though it have just come from the engine shop it is still inert to acquire the power of movement it must receive from the stoker a supply of energyproducing food in other words he lights a few shovelfuls of coal in its inside this heat will produce mechan ical work even so with the beast as nothing is made from nothing the egg supplies first the materials of the newbom animal then the plastic food the smith of living creatures in creases the body up to a certain limit and re news it as it wears away the stoker works at the same time without stopping fuel the source of energy makes but a short stay in the system where it is consumed and fur nishes heat whence movement is derived life is a firebox warmed by its food the animal machine moves walks runs jumps swims flies sets its locomotory apparatus going in a thousand manners to return to the young lycosae they grow no larger until the period of their emancipa tion i find them at the age of seven months the same as when i saw them at their birth the egg supplied the materials necessary for their tiny frames and as the loss of waste substance is for the moment excessively small or even nil additional plastic food is not needed so long as the beastie does not grow in this respect the prolonged abstinence pre sents no difficulty but there remains the ques tion of energyproducing food which is indis pensable for the little lycosa moves when necessary and very actively at that to what shall we attribute the heat expended upon ac tion when the animal takes absolutely no x nourishment an idea suggests itself we say to our r selves that without being life a machine is something more than matter for man has added a little of his mind to it now the iron beast consuming its ration of coal is really r browsing the ancient foliage of arborescent e ferns in which solar energy has accumulated g e g beasts of flesh and blood act no otherwise po whether they mutually devour one another j i or levy tribute on the plant they invariably quicken themselves with the stimulant of the z suns heat a heat stored in grass fruit seed and those which feed on such the sun the cd z soul of the universe is the supreme dispenser of energy instead of being served up through the in termediary of food and passing through the ignominious circuit of gastric chemistry  i could not this solar energy penetrate the ani mal directly and charge it with activity even as the battery charges an accumulator with power why not live on sun seeing that after all we find naught but sun in the fruits which we consume chemical science that bold revolutionary promises to provide us with synthetic food stuffs the laboratory and the factory will take the place of the farm why should not physical science step in as well it would leave the preparation of plastic food to the chemists retorts it would reserve for itself that of energyproducing food which reduced to its exact terms ceases to be matter with the aid of some ingenious apparatus it would pump into us our daily ration of solar energy to be later expended in movement whereby the machine would be kept going without the often painful assistance of the stomach and its adjuncts what a delightful world where one would lunch off a ray of sunshine i is it a dream or the anticipation of a re mote reality the problem is one of the most important that science can set us let us first hear the evidence of the young lycosx regarding its possibilities for seven months without any material nourishment they expend strength in moving to wind up the mechanism of their muscles they recruit themselves direct with heat and light during the time when she was drag ging the bag of eggs behind her the mother at the best moments of the day came and held up her pill to the sun with her two hind legs she lifted it out of the ground into the full light slowly she turned it and returned it so that every side might receive its share of the vivifying rays well this bath of life which awakened the germs is now prolonged to keep the tender babes active daily if the sky be clear the lycosa car rying her young comes up ifrom the burrow leans on the kerb and spends long hours bask ing in the sun here on their mothers back the youngsters stretch their limbs delightedly saturate themselves with heat take in reserves of motor power absorb energy they are motionless but if i only blow upon them they stampede as nimbly as though a hurricane were passing hurriedly they dis perse hurriedly they reassemble a proof that without material nourishment the little animal machine is always at full pressure ready to work when the shade comes mother and sons go down again surfeited with solar emanations the feast of energy at the sun tavern is finished for the day it is re peated in the same way daily if the weather be mild until the hour of emancipation comes followed by the first mouthfuls of solid food the month of march comes to an end and the departure of the youngsters begins in glorious weather during the hottest hours of the morning laden with her swarm ing burden the mother lycosa is outside her burrow squatting on the parapet at the en trance she lets them do as they please as though indifferent to what is happening she exhibits neither encouragement nor regret whoso will goes whoso will remains behind first these then those according as they feel themselves duly soaked with sunshine the little ones leave the mother in batches run about for a moment on the ground and then quickly reach the trelliswork of the cage which they climb with surprising alacrity they pass through the meshes they clamber right to the top of the citadel all with not one exception make for the heights instead of roaming on the ground as might be reason ably be expected from the eminently earthly habits of the lycoss all ascend the dome a strange procedure whereof i do not yet guess the object i receive a hint from the upright ring that finishes the top of the cage the youngsters hurry to it it represents the porch of their gymnasium they hang out threads across the opening they stretch others from the ring to the nearest points of the trel liswork on these footbridges they perform slackrope exercises amid endless comings and goings the tiny legs open out from time to time and straddle as though to reach the most distant points i begin to realize that they are acrobats aiming at loftier heights than those of the dome i top the trellis with a branch that doubles the attainable height the bustling crowd hastily scrambles up it reaches the tip of the topmost twigs and thence sends out threads that attach themselves to every surrounding object these form so many suspension bridges and my beasties nimbly run along them incessantly passing to and fro one would say that they wished to climb higher still i will endeavour to satisfy their desires i take a ninefoot reed with tiny branches spreading right up to the top and place it above the cage the little lycosae clamber to the very summit here longer threads are produced from the ropeyard and are now left to float anon converted into bridges by the mere contact of the free end with the neighbouring supports the ropedancers em bark upon them and form garlands which the least breath of air swings daintily the thread is invisible when it does not come be tween the eyes and the sun and the whole sug gests rows of gnats dancing an aerial ballet then suddenly teased by the aircurrents the delicate mooring breaks and flies through space behold the emigrants of and away clinging to their thread if the wind be fa vourable they can land at great distances their departure is thus continued for a week or two in bands more or less numerous ac cording to the temperature and the brightness of the day if the sky be overcast none dreams of leaving the travellers need the kisses of the sun which give energy and vigour at last the whole family has disappeared carried afar by its flyingropes the mother remains alone the loss of her offspring hardly seems to distress her she retains her usual colour and plumpness which is a sign that the maternal exertions have not been too much for her i also notice an increased fervour in the chase while burdened with her family she was remarkably abstemious accepting only with great reserve the game placed at her disposal the coldness of the season may have militated against copious refections per haps also the weight of the little ones ham pered her movements and made her more dis creet in attacking the prey today cheered by the fine weather and able to move freely she hurries up from her lair each time i set a titbit to her liking buzz ing at the entrance of her burrow she comes and takes from my fingers the savoury locust the portly anoxia and this performance is repeated daily whenever i have the leisure to devote to it after a frugal winter the time has come for plentiful repasts this appetite tells us that the animal is not at the point of death one does not feast in this way with a playedout stomach my boarders are entering in full vigour upon their a species of beetlestranslators note fourth year in the winter in the fields i used to find large mothers carting their young and others not much more than half their size the whole series therefore repre sented three generations and now in my earthenware pans after the departure of the family the old matrons still carry on and con tinue as strong as ever every outward ap pearance tells us that after becoming great grandmothers they still keep themselves fit for propagating their species the facts correspond with these anticipa tions when september returns my captives are dragging a bag as bulky as that of last year for a long time even when the eggs of the others have been hatched for some weeks past the mothers come daily to the threshold of the burrow and hold out their wallets for incubation by the sun their perseverance is not rewarded nothing issues from the satin purse nothing stirs within why because in the prison of my cages the eggs have had no father tired of waiting and at last recog nizing the barrenness of their produce they push the bag of eggs outside the burrow and trouble about it no more at the return of spring by which time the family if developed according to rule would have been emanci pated they die the mighty spider of the wastelands therefore attains to an even more patriarchal age than her neighbour the sacred beetle she lives for five years at the very least let us leave the mothers to their business and return to the youngsters it is not with out a certain surprise that we see the little lycosae at the first moment of their emanci pation hasten to ascend the heights destined to live on the ground amidst the short grass and afterwards to settle in their permanent abode a pit they start by being enthusiastic acrobats before descending to the low levels their normal dwellingplace they affect lofty altitudes to rise higher and ever higher is their first need i have not it seems exhausted the limit of their climbinginstinct even with a ninefoot pole suitably furnished with branches to facilitate the escalade those who have eagerly reached the very top wave cf insect life by j h fabre translated by the au thor of mademoiselle mori chaps i and ii the life and love of the insect by j henri fabre translated by alexander teixeira de mattos chaps i to iv  translators note their legs fumble in space as though for yet higher stalks it behoves us to begin again and under better conditions although the narbonne lycosa with her temporary yearning for the heights is more interesting than other spiders by reason of the fact that her usual habitat is under ground she is not so striking at swarming time because the youngsters instead of all mi grating at once leave the mother at different periods and in small batches the sight will be a finer one with the common garden or cross spider the diadem epeira epeira diadema lin decorated with three white crosses on her back she lays her eggs in november and dies with the first cold snap she is denied the ly cosas longevity she leaves the natal wallet early one spring and never sees the following spring this wallet which contains the eggs has none of the ingenious structure which we admired in the banded and in the silky epeira no longer do we see a graceful bal loonshape nor yet a paraboloid with a starry base no longer a tough waterproof satin stuff no longer a swansdown resembling a fleecy russet doud no longer an inner keg in which the eggs are packed the art of stout fabrics and of walls within walls is unknown here the work of the cross spider is a pill of white silk wrought into a yielding felt through which the newbom spiders will eas ily work their way without the aid of the mother long since dead and without having to rely upon its bursting at the given hour it is about the size of a damson we can judge the method of manufacture from the structure like the lycosa whom we saw in chapter iii at work in one of my earthenware pans the gross spider on the support supplied by a few threads stretched between the nearest objects begins by making a shallow saucer of sufficient thickness to dis pense with subsequent corrections the proc ess is easily guessed the tip of the abdomen goes up and down down and up with an even beat while the worker shifts her place a little each time the spinnerets add a bit of thread to the carpet already made when the requisite thickness is obtained the mother empties her ovaries in one continuous flow into the centre of the bowl glued to gether by their inherent moisture the eggs of a handsome orangeyellow form a ball shaped heap the work of the spinnerets is resumed the ball of germs is covered with a silk cap fashioned in the same way as the saucer the two halves of the work are so well joined that the whole constitutes an un broken sphere the banded epeira and the silky epeira those experts in the manufacture of rainproof textures lay their eggs high up on brush wood and bramble without shelter of any kind the thick material of the wallets is enough to protect the eggs from the inclemen cies of the winter especially from damp the diadem epeira or cross spider needs a cranny for hers which is contained in a non waterproof felt in a heap of stones well ex posed to the sun she will choose a large slab to serve as a roof she lodges her pill un derneath it in the company of the hibernating snail more often still she prefers the thick tangle of some dwarf shrub standing eight or nine inches high and retaining its leaves in winter in the absence of anything better a tuft of grass answers the purpose whatever the hidingplace the bag of eggs is always near the ground tucked away as well as may be amid the surrounding twigs save in the case of the roof supplied by a large stone we see that the site selected hardly satisfies proper hygienic needs the epeira seems to realize this fact by way of an addi tional protection even under a stone she never fails to make a thatched roof for her eggs she builds them a covering with bits of fine dry grass joined together with a little silk the abode of the eggs becomes a straw wigwam good luck procures me two cross spiders nests on the edge of one of the paths in the enclosure among some tufts of ground cypress or lavendercotton this is just what i wanted for my plans the find is all the more valuable as the period of the exodus is near at hand i prepare two lengths of bamboo standing about fifteen feet high and clustered with lit tle twigs from top to bottom i plant one of them straight up in the tuft beside the first nest i clear the surrounding ground because the bushy vegetation might easily thanks to threads carried by the wind divert the emi grants from the road which i have laid out for them the other bamboo i set up in the middle of the yard all by itself some few steps from any outstanding object the sec ond nest is removed as it is shrub and all and placed at the bottom of the tall ragged distaff the events expected are not long in com ing in the first fortnight in may a little earlier in one case a little later in the other the two families each presented with a bam boo climbingpole leave their respective wal lets there is nothing remarkable about the mode of egress the precincts to be crossed consist of a very slack network through which the outcomers wriggle weak little orangeyellow beasties with a triangular black patch upon their sterns one morning is long enough for the whole family to make its ap pearance by degrees the emancipated youngsters climb the nearest twigs clamber to the top and spread a few threads soon they gather in a compact ballshaped cluster the size of a walnut they remain motionless with their heads plunged into the heap and their stems projecting they doze gently mellowing under the kisses of the sun rich in the posses sion of a thread in dieir belly as dieir sole inheritance they prepare to disperse over the wide world let us create a disturbance among the glob ular group by stirring it with a straw all wake up at once the cluster softly dilates and spreads as though set in motion by some centrifugal force it becomes a transparent orb wherein thousands and thousands of tiny legs quiver and shake while threads are ex tended along the way to be followed the whole work resolves itself into a delicate veil which swallows up the scattered family we then see an exquisite nebula against whose opalescent tapestry the tiny animals gleam like twinkling orange stars this straggling state though it last for hours is but temporary if the air grow cooler if rain threaten the spherical group reforms at once this is a protective meas ure on the morning after a shower i find the families on either bamboo in as good condition as on the day before the silk veil and the pill formation have sheltered them well enough from the downpour even so do sheep when caught in a storm in the pastures gather close huddle together and make a common rampart of their backs the assembly into a ballshaped mass is also the rule in calm bright weather after the mornings exertions in the afternoon the climbers collect at a higher point where they weave a wide conical tent with the end of a shoot for its top and gathered into a com pact group spend the night there next day when the heat returns the ascent is resumed in long files following the shrouds which a few pioneers have rigged and which those who come after elaborate with their own work assembled nightly into a globular troop and sheltered under a fresh tent for three or four days each morning before the sun grows too hot my little emigrants thus raise them selves stage by stage on both bamboos until they reach the summit at fifteen feet above the ground the climb comes to an end for lack of foothold under normal conditions the ascent would be shorter the young spiders have at their disposal the bushes the brushwood providing supports on every side for the threads wafted hither and thither by the eddying aircurrents with these ropebridges flung across space the dispersal presents no difficulties each emi grant leaves at his own good time and travels as suits him best my devices have changed these conditions somewhat my two bristling poles stand at a distance from the surrounding shrubs espe cially the one which i planted in the middle of the yard bridges are out of the question for the threads flung into the air are not long enough and so the acrobats eager to get away keep on climbing never come down again are impelled to seek in a higher posi tion what they have failed to find in a lower the top of my two bamboos probably fails to represent the limit of what my keen climbers are capable of achieving we shall see in a moment the object of this climbingpropensity which is a sufficiently remarkable instinct in the garden spiders who have as their domain the lowgrowing brushwood wherein the nets are spread it be comes a still more remarkable instinct in the lycosa who except at the moment when she leaves her mothers back never quits the ground and yet in the early hours of her life shows herself as ardent a wooer of high places as the young garden spiders let us consider the lycosa in particular in her at the moment of the exodus a sudden instinct arises to disappear as promptly and for ever a few hours later this is the climbinginstinct which is unknown to the adult and soon forgotten by the emancipated youngling doomed to wander homeless for many a long day upon the ground neither of them dreams of climbing to the top of a grassstalk the fullgrown spider hunts trapper fashion ambushed in her tower the young one hunts afoot through the scrubby grass in both cases there is no web and therefore no need for lofty contactpoints they are not allowed to quit the ground and climb the heights yet here we have the young lycosa wish ing to leave the maternal abode and to travel far afield by the easiest and swiftest methods suddenly becoming an enthusiastic climber impetuously she scales the wire trellis of the cage where she was bom hurriedly she clam bers to the top of the tall mast which i have prepared for her in the same way she would make for the summit of the bushes in her wasteland we catch a glimpse of her object from on high finding a wide space beneath her she sends a thread floating it is caught by the wind and carries her hanging to it we have our aeroplanes she too possesses her flying machine once the journey is accomplished naught remains of this ingenious business the climbinginstinct comes suddenly at the hour of need and no less suddenly vanishes seeds when ripened in the fruit are dis seminated that is to say scattered on the surface of the ground to sprout in spots as yet unoccupied and fill the expanses that realize favourable conditions amid the wayside rubbish grows one of the gourd family ecbalium elaterium commonly called the squirting cucumber whose fruit  a rough and extremely bitter little cucumber  is the size of a date when ripe the fleshy core resolves into a liquid in which float the seeds compressed by the elastic rind of the fruit this liquid bears upon the base of the footstalk which is gradually forced out yields like a stopper breaks off and leaves an orifice through which a stream of seeds and fluid pulp is suddenly ejected if with a novice hand under a scorching sun you shake the plant laden with yellow fruit you are bound to be somewhat startled when you hear a noise among the leaves and receive the cucumbers grapeshot in your face the fruit of the garden balsam when ripe splits at the least touch into five fleshy valves which curl up and shoot their seeds to a dis tance the botanical name of itnpatiens given to the balsam alludes to this sudden dehiscence of the capsules which cannot endure contact without bursting in the damp and shady places of the woods there exists a plant of the same family which for similar reasons bears the even more ex pressive name of itnpatiens nolimetangere or touchmenot the capsule of the pansy expands into three valves each scooped out like a boat and laden in the middle with two rows of seeds when these valves dry the edges shrivel up press upon the grains and eject them light seeds especially those of the order of compositae have aeronautic apparatus  tufts plumes flywheels  which keep them up in the air and enable them to take distant voy ages in ths way at the least breath the seeds of the dandelion surmounted by a tuft of feathers fly from their dry receptacle and waft gently in the air next to the tuft the wing is the most satis factory contrivance for dissemination by wind thanks to their membranous edge which gives them the appearance of thin scales the seeds of the yellow wallflower reach high cornices of buildings clefts of inaccessible rocks cran nies in old walls and sprout in the remnant of mould bequeathed by the mosses that were there before them the samaras or keys of the elm formed of a broad light fan with the seed cased in its centre those of the maple joined in pairs and resembling the unfurled wings of a bird those of the ash carved like the blade of an oar perform the most distant journeys when driven before the storm like the plant the insect also sometimes possesses travellingapparatus means of dis semination that allow large families to disperse quickly over the country so that each member may have his place in the sun without injuring his neighbour and these apparatus these methods vie in ingenuity with the elms samara the dande lionplume and the catapult of the squirting cucumber let us consider in particular the epeiras those magnificent spiders who to catch their prey stretch between one bush and the next great vertical sheets of meshes resembling those of the fowler the most remarkable in my district is the banded epeira epeira fas data walck so prettily belted with yel low black and silvery white her nest a mar vel of gracefulness is a satin bag shaped like a tiny pear its neck ends in a concave mouth piece closed with a lid also of satin brown ribbons in fanciful meridian waves adorn the object from pole to pole open the nest we have seen in an earlier chapter what we find there let us retell the story under the outer wrapper which is as stout as our woven stuffs and moreover per fectly waterproof is a russet eiderdown of ex quisite delicacy a silky fluff resembling driven smoke nowhere does motherlove prepare a softer bed in the middle of this downy mass hangs a fine silk thimbleshaped purse closed with a movable lid this contains the eggs of a pretty orangeyellow and about five hundred in number all things considered is not this charming chapter iltranslators note edifice an animal fruit a germcasket a cap sule to be compared with that of the plants only the epeiras wallet instead of seeds holds eggs the difference is more ap parent than real for egg and grain are one how will this living fruit ripening in the heat beloved of the cicadae manage to burst how above all will dissemination take place they are there in their hundreds they must separate go far away isolate themselves in a spot where there is not too much fear of competition among neighbours how will they set to work to achieve this distant exodus weaklings that they are taking such very tiny steps i receive the first answer from another and much earlier epeira whose family i find at the beginning of may on a yucca in the enclo sure the plant blossomed last year the branching flowerstem some three feet high still stands erect though withered on the green leaves shaped like a swordblade swarm two newlyhatched families the wee beasties are a dull yellow with a triangular black patch upon their stem later on three white crosses ornamenting the back will tell me that my find corresponds with the cross or diadem spider epeira diadetna walck when the sun reaches this part of the en closure one of the two groups falls into a great state of flutter nimble acrobats that they are the little spiders scramble up one after the other and reach the top of the stem here marches and countermarches tumult and confusion reign for there is a slight breeze which throws the troop into disorder i see no connected manoeuvres from the top of the stalk they set out at every moment one by one they dart off suddenly they fly away so to speak it is as though they had the wings of a gnat forthwith they disappear from view noth ing that my eyes can see explains this strange flight for precise observation is impossible amid the disturbing influences out of doors what is wanted is a peaceful atmosphere and the quiet of my study i gather the family in a large box which i close at once and instal it in the animals laboratory on a small table two steps from the open window apprised by what i have just seen of their propensity to resort to the heights i give my subjects a bundle of twigs eighteen inches tall as a climbingpole the whole band hurriedly clambers up and reaches the top in a few moments there is not one lacking in the group on high the future will tell us the reason of this assemblage on the projecting tips of the twigs the little spiders are now spinning here and there at random they go up go down come up again thus is woven a light veil of divergent threads a manycornered web with the end of the branch for its summit and the edge of the table for its base some eighteen inches wide this veil is the drillground the workyard where the preparations for de parture are made here hasten the humble little creatures running indefatigably to and fro when the sun shines upon them they become gleaming specks and form upon the milky background of the veil a sort of constellation a reflex of those remote points in the sky where the tele scope shows us endless galaxies of stars the immeasurably small and the immeasurably large are alike in appearance it is all a mat ter of distance but the living nebula is not composed of fixed stars on the contrary its specks are in continual movement the young spiders never cease shifting their position on the web many let themselves drop hanging by a length of thread which the fallers weight draws from the spinnerets then quickly they climb up again by the same thread which they wind gradually into a skein and lengthen by successive falls others confine themselves to running about the web and also give me the impression of working at a bundle of ropes the thread as a matter of fact does not flow from the spinneret it is drawn thence with a certain effort it is a case of extrac tion not emission to obtain her slender cord the spider has to move about and haul cither by falling or by walking even as the ropemaker steps backwards when working his hemp the activity now displayed on the drillground is a preparation for the approach ing dispersal the travellers are packing up soon we see a few spiders trotting briskly between the table and the open window they are running in midair but on what if the light fall favourably i manage to see at mo ments behind the tiny animal a thread resem bling a ray of light which appears for an in stant gleams and disappears behind there fore there is a mooring only just perceptible if you look very carefully but in front towards the window there is nothing to be seen at all in vain i examine above below at the side in vain i vary the direction of the eye i can distinguish no support for the little crea ture to walk upon one would think that the beastie were paddling in space it suggests the idea of a small bird tied by the leg with a thread and making a flying rush forwards but in this case appearances are deceptive flight is impossible die spider must necessa rily have a bridge whereby to cross the inter vening space this bridge which i cannot see i can at least destroy i cleave the air with a ruler in front of the spider making for the window that is quite enough the tiny animal at once ceases to go forward and falls the invisible footplank is broken my son young paul who is helping me is astounded at this wavr of the magic wand for not even he with his fresh young eyes is able to see a support ahead for the spiderling to move along in the rear on the other hand a thread is visible the difference is easily explained every spider as she goes at the same time spins a safetycord which will guard the rope walker against the risk of an always possible fall in the rear therefore the thread is of double thickness and can be seen whereas in front it is still single and hardly perceptible to the eye obviously this invisible footbridge is not flung out by the animal it is carried and un rolled by a gust of air the epeira supplied with this line lets it float freely and the wind however softly blowing bears it along and unwinds it even so is the smoke from the bowl of a pipe whirled up in the air this floating thread has but to touch any object in the neighbourhood and it will re main fixed to it the suspensionbridge is thrown and the spider can set out the southamericao indians are said to cross the abysses of the cordilleras in travellingcradles made of twisted creepers the little spider passes through space on the invisible and the imponderable but to carry the end of the floating thread elsewhither a draught is needed at this mo ment the draught exists between the door of my study and the window both of which are open it is so slight that i do not feel it i only know of it by the smoke from my pipe curling softly in that direction cold air enters from without through the door warm air escapes from the room through the win dow this is the draught that carries the threads with it and enables the spiders to em baric upon their journey i get rid of it by closing both apertures and i break off any communication by passing my ruler between the window and the table henceforth in the motionless atmosphere there are no departures the current of air is missing the skeins are not unwound and mi gration becomes impossible it is soon resumed but in a direction where of i never dreamt the hot sun is beating on a certain part of the floor at this spot which is warmer than the rest a column of lighter ascending air is generated if this column catch the threads my spiders ought to rise to the ceiling of the room the curious ascent does in fact take place unfortunately my troop which has been greatly reduced by the number of departures through the window does not lend itself to prolonged experiment we must begin again the next morning on the same yucca i gather the second family as numerous as the first yesterdays preparations are repeated my legion of spiders first weaves a divergent framework between the top of the brushwood placed at the emigrants disposal and the edge of the table five or six hundred wee beasties swarm all over this workyard while this little world is busily fussing making its arrangements for departure i make my own every aperture in the room is closed so as to obtain as calm an atmosphere as possible a small chafingdish is lit at the foot of the table my hands cannot feel the heat of it at the level of the web whereon my spiders are weaving this is the very modest fire which with its column of rising air shall unwind the threads and carry them on high let us first enquire the direction and strength of the current dandelionplumes made lighter by the removal of their seeds serve as my guides released above the cha fingdish on the level of the table they float slowly upwards and for the most part reach the ceiling the emigrants lines should rise in the same way and even better the thing is done with the aid of nothing that is visible to the three of us looking on a spider makes her ascent she ambles with her eight legs through the air she mounts gently swaying the others in everincreasing num bers follow sometimes by different roads sometimes by the same road any one who did not possess the secret would stand amazed at this magic ascent without a ladder in a few minutes most of them are up clinging to the ceiling not all of them reach it i see some who on attaining a certain height cease to go up and even lose ground although moving their legs forward with all the nimbleness of which they are capable the more they struggle up wards the faster they come down this drift ing which neutralizes the distance covered and even converts it into a retrogression is easily explained the thread has not reached the platform it floats it is fixed only at the lower end as long as it is of a fair length it is able al though moving to bear the minute animals weight but as the spider climbs the float becomes shorter in proportion and the time comes when a balance is struck between the ascensional force of the thread and the weight carried then the beastie remains stationary although continuing to climb presently the weight becomes too much for the shorter and shorter float and the spider slips down in spite of her persistent forward striving she is at last brought back to the branch by the falling thread here the ascent is soon renewed either on a fresh thread if the supply of silk be not yet exhausted or on a strange thread the work of those who have gone before as a rule the ceiling is reached it is twelve feet high the little spider is able there fore as the first product of her spinningmill before taking any refreshment to obtain a line fully twelve feet in length and all this the ropemaker and her rope was contained in the egg a particle of no size at all to what a degree of fineness can the silky matter be wrought wherewith the young spider is pro vided i our manufacturers are able to turn out platinumwire that can only be seen when it is made redhot with much simpler means the spiderling draws from her wiremill threads so delicate that even the brilliant light aoo of the sun does not always enable us to dis cern them we must not let all the climbers be stranded on the ceiling an inhospitable region where most of them will doubtless perish being un able to produce a second thread before they have had a meal i open the window a current of lukewarm air coming from the chafingdish escapes through the top dan delionplumes taking that direction tell me so the wafting threads cannot fail to be carried by this flow of air and to lengthen out in the open where a light breeze is blowing i take a pair of sharp scissors and without shaking the threads cut a few that are just visible at the base where they are thickened with an added strand the result of this operation is marvellous hanging to the flyingrope which is borne on the wind outside the spider passes through the win dow suddenly flies off and disappears an easy way of travelling if the conveyance possessed a rudder that allowed the passenger to land where he pleases but the little things are at the mercy of the winds where will they alight hundreds thousands of yards away perhaps let us wish them a prosperous journey the problem of dissemination is now solved what would happen if matters in stead of being brought about by my wiles took place in the open fields the answer is ob vious the young spiders born acrobats and ropewalkers climb to the top of a branch so as to find sufficient space below them to unfurl their apparatus here each draws from her ropefactory a thread which she abandons to the eddies of the air gently raised by the currents that ascend from the ground warmed by the sun this thread wafts upwards floats undulates makes fornts point of contact at last it breaks and vanishes in the distance carrying the spinstress hanging to it the epeira with the three white crosses the spider who has supplied us with these first data concerning the process of dissemination is endowed with a moderate maternal indus try as a receptacle for the eggs she weaves a mere pill of silk her work is modest in deed beside the banded epeiras balloons i looked to these to supply me with fuller docu ments i had laid up a store by rearing some mothers during the autumn so that nothing of importance might escape me i divided my stock of balloons most of which were woven before my eyes into two sections one half remained in my study under a wiregauze cover with small bunches of brushwood as supports the other half were experiencing the vicissitudes of openair life on the rosemaries in the enclosure these preparations which promised so well did not provide me with the sight which i expected namely a magnificent exodus worthy of the tabernacle occupied however a few results not devoid of interest are to be noted let us state them briefly the hatching takes place as march ap proaches when this time comes let us open the banded epeiras nest with the scissors we shall find that some of the youngsters have already left the central chamber and scattered over the surrounding eiderdown while the rest of the laying still consists of a compact mass of orange eggs the appear ance of the younglings is not simultaneous it takes place with intermissions and may last a couple of weeks nothing as yet suggests the future richly striped livery the abdomen is white and as it were floury in the front half in the other half it is a blackishbrown the rest of the body is paleyellow except in front where the eyes form a black edging when left alone the little ones remain motionless in the soft russet swans down if disturbed they shufile lazily where they are or even walk about in a hesitating and unsteady fashion one can see that they have to ripen before venturing out side maturity is achieved in the exquiste floss that surrounds the natal chamber and fills out the balloon this is the waitingroom in which the body hardens all dive into it as and when they emerge from the central keg they will not leave it until four months later when the midsummer heats have come their number is considerable a patient and careful census gives me nearly six hun dred and all this comes out of a purse no larger than a pea by what miracle is there room for such a family how do those thou sands of legs manage to grow without strain ing themselves the eggbag as we learnt in chapter ii is a short cylinder rounded at the bottom it is formed of compact white satin an insuperable barrier it opens into a round orifice wherein is bedded a lid of the same material through which the feeble beasties would be incapable of passing it is not a porous felt but a fab ric as tough as that of the sack then by what mechanism is the delivery effected observe that the disk of the lid doubles back into a short fold which edges into the orifice of the bag in the same way the lid of a saucepan fits the mouth by means of a pro jecting rim with this difference that the rim is not attached to the saucepan whereas in the epeiras work it is soldered to the bag or nest well at the time of the hatching this disk becomes unstuck lifts and allows the newbom spiders to pass through if the rim were movable and simply in serted if moreover the birth of all the fam ily took place at the same time we might think that the door is forced open by the liv ing wave of inmates who would set their backs to it with a common effort we should find an approximate image in the case of the saucepan whose lid is raised by the boiling of its contents but the fabric of the cover is one with the fabric of the bag the two are closely welded besides the hatching is effected in small batches incapable of the least exertion there must therefore be a sponta neous bursting or dehiscence independent of the assistance of the youngsters and similar to that of the seedpods of plants when fully ripened the dry fruit of the snapdragon opens three windows that of the pimpernel splits into two rounded halves something like those of the outer case of a fobwatch the fruit of the carnation partly unseals its valves and opens at the top into a starshaped hatch each seedcasket has its own system of locks which are made to work smoothly by the mere kiss of the sun well that other dry fruit the banded epeiras germbox likewise possesses its burst inggear as long as the eggs remain unhatched the door solidly fixed in its frame holds good as soon as the little ones swarm and want to get out it opens of itself come june and july beloved of the ci cadsb no less beloved of the young spiders who are anxious to be off it were difficult in deed for them to work their way through the thick shell of the balloon for the second time a spontaneous dehiscence seems called for where will it be effected the idea occurs oshand that it will take place long the edges of the top cover re member the details given in an earlier chap ter the neck of the balloon ends in a wide crater which is closed by a ceiling dug out cupwise the material is as stout in this part as in any other but as the lid was the finish ing touch to the work we expect to find an in complete soldering which would allow it to be unfastened the method of construction deceives us the ceiling is immovable at no season can my forceps manage to extract it without destroy ing the building from top to bottom the dehiscence takes places elsewhere at some point on the sides nothing informs us noth ing suggests to us that it will occur at one place rather than another moreover to tell the truth it is not a de hiscence prepared by means of some dainty piece of mechanism it is a very irregular tear somewhat sharply under the fierce heat of the sun the satin bursts like the rind of an over ripe pomegranate judging by the result we think of the expansion of the air inside which heated by the sun causes this rupture the signs of pressure from within are manifest the tatters of the torn fabric are turned out wards also a wisp of the russet eiderdown that fills the wallet invariably straggles through the breach in the midst of the pro truding floss the spiderlings expelled from their home by the explosion are in frantic commotion the balloons of the banded epeira are bombs which to free their contents burst un der the rays of a torrid sun to break they heed the fiery heatwaves of the dogdays when kept in the moderate atmosphere of my study most of them do not open and the emer gence of the young does not take place unless i myself have a hand in the business a few others open with a round hole a hole so neat that it might have been made with a punch this aperture is the work of the prisoners who relieving one another in turns have with a patient tooth bitten through the stuff of the jar at some point or other when exposed to the full force of the sun however on the rosemaries in the enclosure the balloons burst and shoot forth a ruddy flood of floss and tiny animals that is how things occur in the free sunbath of the fields unsheltered among the bushes the wallet of the banded epeira when the july heat ar rives splits under the effort of the inner air the delivery is effected by an explosion of the dwelling a very small part of the family are expelled with the flow of tawny floss the vast major ity remain in the bag which is ripped open but still bulges with eiderdown now that the breach is made any one can go out who pleases in his own good time without hurry ing besides a solemn action has to be per formed before the emigration the ani mal must cast its skin and the moult is an event that does not fall on the same date for all the evacuation of the place therefore lasts several days it is effected in small squads as the slough is flung aside those who sally forth climb up the neigh bouring twigs and there in the full heat of the sun proceed with the work of dissemina tion the method is the same as that which we saw in the case of the cross spider the spinnerets abandon to the breeze a thread that floats breaks and flies away carrying the ropemaker with it the number of starters on any one morning is so small as to rob the spectacle of the greater part of its interest the scene lacks animation because of the ab sence of a crowd to my intense disappointment the silky epeira does not either indulge in a tumultu ous and dashing exodus let me remind you of her handiwork the handsomest of the ma ternal wallets next to the banded epeiras it is an obtuse conoid closed with a star shaped disk it is made of a stouter and es pecially a thicker material than the banded epeiras balloon for which reason a sponta neous rupture becomes more necessary than ever this rupture is effected at the sides of the bag not far from the edge of the lid like the ripping of the balloon it requires the rough aid of the heat of july its mechan ism also seems to work by the expansion of the heated air for we again see a partial emis sion of the silky floss that fills the pouch the exit of the family is performed in a single group and this time before the moult perhaps for lack of the space necessary for the delicate casting of the skin the conical bag falls far short of the balloon in size those packed within would sprain their legs in ex tracting them from their sheaths the fam ily therefore emerges in a body and settles on a sprig hard by this is a temporary campingground where spinning in unison the youngsters soon weave an openwork tent the abode of a week or thereabouts the moult is effected in this lounge of intersecting threads the sloughed skins form a heap at the bottom of the dwelling on the trapezes above the flaylings take exercise and gain strength and vigour finally when maturity is attained they set out now these now those little by little and always cautiously there are no audacious flights on the thready airship the journey is accomplished by modest stages hanging to her thread the spider lets her self drop straight down to a depth of nine or ten inches a breath of air sets her swinging like a pendulum sometimes drives her against a neighbouring branch this is a step towards the dispersal at the point reached there is a fresh fall followed by a fresh pendulous swing that lands her a little farther afield thus in short tacks for the thread is never very long does the spiderling go about see ing the country until she comes to a place that suits her should the wind blow at all hard the voyage is cut short the cable of the pen dulum breaks and the beastie is carried for some distance on its cord to sum up although on the whole the tactics of the exodus remain much the same the two spinstresses of my region bestversed in the art of weaving mothers wallets failed to come up to my expectations i went to the trouble of rearing them with disappointing results where shall i find again the wonder ful spectacle which the cross spider offered me by chance i shall find it  in an even more striking fashion  among humbler spiders whom i had neglected to observe the spider that showed me the exodus in all its magnificence is known officially as thomisus onustus walck though the name suggest nothing to the readers mind it has the advantage at any rate of hurting neither the throat nor the ear as is too often the case with scientific nomenclature which sounds more like sneezing than articulate speech since it is the rule to dignify plants and animals with a latin label let us at least respect the euphony of the classics and refrain from harsh splutters which spit out a name instead of pronouncing it what will posterity do in face of the ris ing tide of a barbarous vocabulary which under the pretence of progress stifles real knowledge it will relegate the whole busi ness to the quagmire of oblivion but what will never disappear is the popular name which sounds well is picturesque and conveys some sort of information such is the term crab spider applied by the ancients to the group to which the thomisus belongs a pretty accurate term for in this case there is an evident analogy between the spider and the crustacean like the crab the thomisus walks side ways she also has forelegs stronger than her hindlegs the only thing wanting to com plete the resemblance is the front pair of stone gauntlets raised in the attitude of self defence the spider with the crablike figure does not know how to manufacture nets for catch ing game without springs or snares she lies in ambush among the flowers and awaits the arrival of the quarry which she kills by administering a scientific stab in the neck the thomisus in particular the subject of this chapter is passionately addicted to the pursuit of the domestic bee i have de scribed the contests between the victim and her executioner at greater length else where the bee appears seeking no quarrel intent upon plunder she tests the flowers with her tongue she selects a spot that will yield a good return soon she is wrapped up in her harvesting while she is filling her baskets and distending her crop the thomisus tht bandit lurking under cover of the flowers issues from her hidingplace creeps round be hind the bustling insect steals up close and with a sudden rush nabs her in the nape of the neck in vain the bee protests and darts her sting at random the assailant does not let go besides the bite in the neck is paralyzing because the cervical nervecentres are affected the poor things legs stiffen and all is over in a second the murderess now sucks the victims blood at her ease and when she has done scornfully flings the drained corpse aside she hides herself once more ready to bleed a second gleaner should the occasion offer this slaughter of the bee engaged in the hallowed delights of labour has always re volted me why should there be workers to feed idlers why sweated to keep sweaters in luxury why should so many admirable lives be sacrificed to the greater prosperity of brigandage these hateful discords amid the general harmony perplex the thinker all the more as wc shall see the cruel vampire become a model of devotion where her family is con cerned the ogre loved his children he ate the children of others under the tyranny of the stomach we are all of us beasts and men alike ogres the dignity of labour the joy of life maternal affection the terrors of death all these do not count in others the main point is that the morsel be tender and savoury according to the etymology of her name  diiyiy a cord  the thomisus should be like the ancient lictor who bound the sufferer to the stake the comparison is not inappropri ate as regards many spiders who tie their prey with a thread to subdue it and consume it at their ease but it just happens that the thomisus is at variance with her label she does not fasten her bee who dying suddenly of a bite in the neck offers no resistance to her consumer carried away by his recollec tion of the regular tactics our spiders god father overlooked the exception he did not know of the perfidious mode of attack which renders the use of a bowstring superfluous nor is the second name of onustus  loaded burdened freighted  any too happily chosen the fact that the beehuntress carries a heavy paunch is no reason to refer to this as a dis tinctive characteristic nearly all spiders have a voluminous belly a silkwarehouse where in some cases the rigging of the net in others the swans down of the nest is manufactured the thomisus a firstclass nestbuilder does like the rest she hoards in her abdomen but without undue display of obesity the wherewithal to house her family snugly can the expression onustus refer simply to her slow and sidelong walk the explanation appeals to me without satisfying me fully except in the case of a sudden alarm every spider maintains a sober gait and a wary pace when all is said the scientific term is composed of a misconception and a worthless epithet how difficult it is to name animals rationally i let us be indulgent to the nomen clator the dictionary is becoming exhausted and the constant flood that requires cata loguing mounts incessantly wearing out our combinations of syllables as the technical name tells the reader nothing how shall he be informed i see but one means which is to invite him to the may festivals in the wastelands of the south the murderess of the bees is of a chilly constitu tion in our parts she hardly ever moves away from the olivedistricts her favourite shrub is the whiteleaved rockrose cistus albidus with the large pink crumpled ephemeral blooms that last but a morning and are re placed next day by fresh flowers which have blossomed in the cool dawn this glorious efflorescence goes on for five or six weeks here the bees plunder enthusiastically fussing and bustling in the spacious whorl of the stamens which beflour them with yellow their persccutrix knows of this affluence she posts herself in her watchhouse under the rosy screen of a petal cast your eyes over the flower more or less everywhere if you see a bee lying lifeless with legs and tongue outstretched draw nearer the thomisus will be there nine times out of ten the thug has struck her blow she is draining the blood of the departed after all this cutter of bees throats is a pretty a very pretty creature despite her un wieldy paunch fashioned like a squat pyra mid and embossed on the base on either side with a pimple shaped like a camels hump the skin more pleasing to the eye than any satin is milkwhite in some in others lemon yellow there are fine ladies among them who adorn their legs with a number of pink bracelets and their back with carmine ara besques a narrow palegreen ribbon some times edges the right and left of the breast it is not so rich as the costume of the banded epeira but much more elegant because of its soberness its daintiness and the artful blend ing of its hues novice fingers which shrink from touching any other spider allow them selves to be enticed by these attractions they do not fear to handle the beauteous thomisus so gentle in appearance well what can this gem among spiders do in the first place she makes a nest worthy of its architect with twigs and horsehair and bits of wool the goldfinch the chaffinch and other masters of the builders art construct an aerial bower in the fork of the branches herself a lover of high places the thomisus selects as the site of her nest one of the upper twigs of the rockrose her regular hunting ground a twig withered by the heat and pos sessing a few dead leaves which curl into a little cottage this is where she settles with a view to her eggs ascending and descending with a gentle swing in more or less every direction the liv ing shuttle swollen with silk weaves a bag whose outer casing becomes one with the dry leaves around the work which is partly visible and partly hidden by its supports is a pure deadwhite its shape moulded in the angular interval between the bent leaves is that of a cone and reminds us on a smaller scale of the nest of the silky epeira when the eggs are laid the mouth of the receptacle is hermetically closed with a lid of the same white silk lastly a few threads stretched like a thin curtain form a canopy above the nest and with the curved tips of the leaves frame a sort of alcove wherein the mother takes up her abode it is more than a place of rest after the fatigues of her confinement it is a guard room an inspectionpost where the mother re mains sprawling until the youngsters exodus greatly emaciated by the laying of her eggs and by her expenditure of silk she lives only for the protection of her nest should some vagrant pass near by she hurries from her watchtower lifts a limb and puts the intruder to flight if i tease her with a straw she parries with big gestures like those of a prizefighten she uses her fists against my weapon when i propose to dis lodge her in view of certain experiments i find some difficulty in doing so she clings to the silken floor she frustrates my attacks which i am bound to moderate lest i should injure her she is no sooner attracted outside than she stubbornly returns to her post she declines to leave her treasure even so does the narbonne lycosa struggle when we try to take away her pill each dis plays the same pluck and the same devotion and also the same denseness in distinguishing her property from that of others the ly cosa accepts without hesitation any strange pill which she is given in exchange for her own she confuses alien produce with the produce of her ovaries and her silkfactory those hallowed words maternal love were out of place here it is an impetuous an almost me chanical impulse wherein real affection plays no part whatever the beautiful spider of the rockroses is no more generously endowed when moved from her nest to another of the same kind she settles upon it and never stirs from it even though the different arrange ment of the leafy fence be such as to warn her that she is not really at home provided that she have satin under her feet she does not notice her mistake she watches over an others nest with the same vigilance which she might show in watching over her own the lycosa surpasses her in maternal blindness she fastens to her spinnerets and dangles by way of a bag of eggs a ball of cork polished with my file a paper pellet a little ball of thread in order to discover if the thomisus is capable of a similar error i gathered some broken pieces of silkworms cocoon into a closed cone turning the frag ments so as to bring the smoother and more delicate inner surface outside my attempt was unsuccessful when removed from her home and placed on the artificial wallet the mother thomisus obstinately refused to settle there can she be more clearsighted than the lycosa perhaps so let us not be too extravagant with our praise however the imitation of the bag was a very clumsy one the work of laying is finished by the end of may after which lying flat on the ceiling of her nest the mother never leaves her guardroom either by night or day seeing her look so thin and wrinkled i imagine that i can please her by bringing her a provision of bees as i was wont to do i have misjudged her needs the bee hitherto her favourite dish tempts her no longer in vain does the prey buzz close by an easy capture within the cage the watcher does not shift from her post takes no notice of the windfall she lives exclusively upon maternal devotion a commendable but unsubstantial fare and so i see her pining away from day to day be coming more and more wrinkled what is the withered thing waiting for before expir ing she is waiting for her children to emerge the dying creature is still of use to them when the banded epeiras little ones issue from their balloon they have long been orphans there is none to come to their assistance and they have not the strength to free themselves unaided the balloon has to split automatically and to scatter the young sters and their flossy mattress all mixed up together the thomisus wallet sheathed in leaves over the greater part of its surface never bursts nor does the lid rise so carefully is it sealed down nevertheless after the de livery of the brood we see at the edge of the lid a small gaping hole an exitwindow who contrived this window which vas not there at first the fabric is too thick and tough to have yielded to the twitches of the feeble little prisoners it was the mother therefore who feeling her offspring shuffle impatiently under the silken ceiling herself made a hole in the bag she persists in living for five or six weeks despite her shattered health so as to give a last helping hand and open the door for her family after performing this duty she gently lets herself die hugging her nest and turning into a shrivelled relic when july comes the little ones emerge in view of their acrobatic habits i have placed a bundle of slender twigs at the top of the cage in which they were bom all of them pass through the wire gauze and form a group on the summit of the brushwood where they swiftly weave a spacious lounge of criss cross threads here they remain pretty quietly for a day or two then footbridges begin to be flung from one object to the next this is the opportune moment i put the bunch laden with beasties on a small table in the shade before the open win dow soon the exodus commences but slowly and unsteadily there are hesitations retro gressions perpendicular falls at the end of a thread ascents that bring the hanging spider up again in short much ado for a poor result as matters continue to drag it occurs to me at eleven ovlock to take the bundle of brush wood swarming with the little spiders all eager to be off and place it on the windowsill in the glare of the sun after a few minutes of heat and light the scene assumes a very different aspect the emigrants run to the top of the twigs bustle about actively it becomes a bewildering ropeyard where thou sands of legs are drawing the hemp from the spinnerets i do not see the ropes manu factured and sent floating at the mercy of the air but i guess their presence three or four spiders start at a time each going her own way in directions independent of her neighbours ah are moving upwards all are climbing some support as can be per ils ceived by the nimble motion of their legs moreover the road is visible behind the climber it is of double thickness thanks to an added thread then at a certain height in dividual movement ceases the tiny animal soars in space and shines lit up by the sun softly it sways then suddenly takes flight what has happened there is a slight breeze outside the floating cable has snapped and the creature has gone off borne on its parachute i see it drifting away showing like a spot of light against the dark foliage of the near cypresses some forty feet distant it rises higher it crosses over the cypressscreen it disappears others follow some higher some lower hither and thither but the throng has finished its preparations the hour has come to disperse in swarms we now see from the crest of the brushwood a continuous spray of starters who shoot up like microscopic projectiles and mount in a spreading cluster in the end it is like the bouquet at the finish of a pyrotechnic display the sheaf of rockets fired simultaneously the comparison is correct down to the dazzling light itself flaming in the sun like so many gleaming points the little spiders are the sparks of that living firework what a glo rious sendoifl what an entrance into the world clutching its aeronautic thread the minute creature mounts in an apotheosis sooner or later nearer or farther the fall comes to live we have to descend often very low alas the crested lark crumbles the muledroppings in the road and thus picks up his food the oaten grain which he would never find by soaring in the sky his throat swollen with song we have to descend the stomachs inexorable claims demand it the spiderling therefore touches land gravity tempered by the parachute is kind to her the rest of her story escapes me what infinitely tiny midges does she capture before possessing the strength to stab her bee what are the methods what the wiles of atom con tending with atom i know not we shall find her again in spring grown quite large and crouching among the flowers whence the bee takes toll the fowlingsnare is one of mans ingen ious villainies with lines pegs and poles two large earthcoloured nets arc en stretched upon the ground one to the right iy the other to the left of a bare surface a long c j cord pulled at the right moment by the fowler who hides in a brushwood hut works them and brings them together suddenly like a pair of shutters c j  divided between the two nets are the cages q of the decoybirds  linnets and chaffinches greenfinches and yellowhammers buntings and ortolans  sharpeared creatures which q on perceiving the distant passage of a flock of their own kind forthwith utter a short calling note one of them the satnbe an irresistible q tempter hops about and flaps his wings in ap x parent freedom a bit of twine fastens him to his convicts stake when worn with fa tigue and driven desperate by his vain at tempts to get away the sufferer lies down flat and refuses to do his duty the fowler is able to stimulate him without stirring from his hut a long string sets in motion a little lever work ing on a pivot raised from the ground by this diabolical contrivance the bird flies falls down and flies up again at each jerk of the cord the fowler waits in the mild sunlight of the autumn morning suddenly great excite ment in the cages the chaflinches chirp their rallyingcry tinckl pinckl there is something happening in the sky thtsatnbey quick they are coming the sim pletons they swoop down upon the treacher ous floor with a rapid movement the man in ambush pulls his string the nets close and the whole flock is caught man has wild beasts blood in his veins the fowler hastens to the slaughter with his thumb he stifles the beating of the captives hearts staves in their skulls the little birds so many piteous heads of game will go to mar ket strung in dozens on a wire passed through their nostrils for scoundrelly ingenuity the epeiras net can bear comparison with the fowlers it even surpasses it when on patient study the main features of its supreme perfection stand re vealed what refinement of art for a mess of flies i nowhere in the whole animal king dom has the need to eat inspired a more cun ning industry if the reader will meditate upon the description that follows he will cer tainly share my admiration first of all we must witness the making of the net we must see it constructed and see it again and again for the plan of such a com plex work can only be grasped in fragments today observation will give us one detail tomorrow it will give us a second suggesting fresh points of view as our visits multiply a new fact is each time added to the sum total of the acquired data confirming those which come before or directing our thoughts along unsuspected paths the snowball rolling over the carpet of white grows enormous however scanty each fresh layer be even so with truth in observa tional science it is built up of trifles patiently gathered together and while the collecting of these trifles means that the student of spider industry must not be chary of his time at least it involves no distant and speculative research the smallest garden contains epeirs all accomplished weavers in my enclosure which i have stocked care fully with the most famous breeds i have sbc different species under observation all of a useful size all firstclass spinners their names are the banded epeira epeira fasci ata walck the silky epeira £ sericea walck the angular epeira £ angulata walck the paletinted epeira £ pallida oliv the diadem epeira or cross spider £ diadema clerk and the crater epeira ecratera walck i am able at the proper hours all through the fine season to question them to watch them at work now this one anon that accord ing to the chances of the day what i did not see very plainly yesterday i can see the next day under better conditions and on any of the following days until the phenomenon under observation is revealed in all clearness let us go every evening step by step from one border of tall rosemaries to the next should things move too slowly we will sit down at the foot of the shrubs opposite the ropeyard where the light falls favourably and watch with unwearying attention each trip will be good for a fact that fills some gap in the ideas already gathered to appoint ones self in this way an inspector of spiders webs for many yelrs in succession and for long seasons means joining a not overcrowded profession i admit heaven knows it does not enable one to put money by no matter the meditative mind returns from that school fully satisfied to describe the separate progress of the work in the case of each of the six epeirae mentioned would be a useless repetition all six employ the same methods and weave similar webs save for certain details that shall be set forth later i will therefore sum up in the aggregate the particulars supplied by one or other of them my subjects in the first instance are young and boast but a slight corporation very far re moved from what it will be in the late autumn the belly the wallet containing the rope works hardly exceeds a peppercorn in bulk this slenderness on the part of the spinstresses must not prejudice us against their work there is no parity between their skill and their years the adult spiders with their disgraceful paunches can do no better moreover the beginners have one very precious advantage for the observer they work by day work even in the sun whereas the old ones weave only at night at unseasonable hours the first show us the secrets of their looms without much difficulty the others con ceal them from us work starts in july a couple of hours before sunset the spinstresses of my enclosure then leave their daytime hidingplaces select their posts and begin to spin one here another there there are many of them we can choose where we please let us stop in front of this one whom we surprise in the act of laying the foundations of the structure without any appreciable order she runs about the rosemaryhedge from the tip of one branch to another within the limits of some eighteen inches gradually she puts a thread in posi tion drawing it from her wiremill with the combs attached to her hindlegs this pre paratory work presents no appearance of a concerted plan the spider comes and goes impetuously as though at random she goes up comes down goes up again dives down again and each time strengthens the points of contact with intricate moorings distributed here and there the result is a scanty and disordered scaffolding is disordered the word perhaps not the epeiras eye more experienced in mat ters of this sort than mine has recogn the general lie of the land and the rope fabric has been erected accordingly it is very inaccurate in my opinion but very suitable for the spiders designs what is it that she really wants a solid frame to contain the network of the web the shapeless structure which she has just built fulfils the desired con ditions it marks out a flat free and perpen dicular area this is all that is necessary the whole work for that matter is now soon completed it is done all over again each evening from top to bottom for the incidents of the chase destroy it in a night the net is as yet too delicate to resist the desperate struggles of the captured prey on the other hand the adults net whidi is formed of stouter threads is adapted to last some time and the epeira gives it a more carefully constructed framework as we shall see elsewhere a special thread the foundation of the real net is stretched across the area so capri iously circumscribed it is distinguished from the others by its isolation its position at a distance from any twig that might interfere with its swaying length it never fails to have in the middle a thick white point formed of a little siuc cushion this is the beacon that marks the centre of the future edifice the post that will guide the epeira and bring order into the wilderness of twists and turns the time has come to weave the hunting snare the spider starts from the centre which bears the white signpost and running along the transversal thread hurriedly reaches the circumference that is to say the irregular frame enclosing the free space still with the same sudden movement she rushes from the circumference to the centre she starts again backwards and forwards makes for the right the left the top the bottom she hoists herself up dives down climbs up again runs down and always returns to the central landmark by roads that slant in the most unexpected manner each time a radius or spoke is laid here there or elsewhere in what looks like mad disorder the operation is so erratically conducted that it takes the most unremitting attention to follow it at all the spider reaches the margin of the area by one of the spokes al ready placed she goes along this margin for some distance from the point at which she landed fixes her thread to the frame and re turns to the centre by the same road which she has just taken the thread obtained on the way in a broken line partly on the radius and partly on the frame is too long for the exact distance be tween the circumference and the central point on returning to this point the spider adjusts her thread stretches it to the correct length fixes it and collects what remains on the central signpost in the case of each radius laid the surplus is treated in the same fashion so that the signpost continues to increase in size it was first a speck it is now a little pellet or even a small cushion of a certain breadth we shall see presently what becomes of this cushion whereon the spider that nig gardly housewife lays her savedup bits of thread for the moment we will note that the epeira works it up with her legs after placing each spoke teazles it with her claws mats it into felt with noteworthy diligence in so doing she gives the spokes a solid common support something like the hub of our carriagewheels the eventual regularity of the work sug gests that the radii are spun in the same order in which they figure in the web each follow ing immediately upon its next neighbour matters pass in another manner which at first looks like disorder but which is really a judicious contrivance after setting a few spokes in one direction the epeira runs across to the other side to draw some in the opposite direction these sudden changes of course are highly logical they show us how pro ficient the spider is in the mechanics of rope construction were they to succeed one another regularly the spokes of one group having nothing as yet to counteract them would distort the work by their straining would even destroy it for lack of a stabler support before continuing it is necessary to lay a converse group which will maintain the whole by its resistance any combination of forces acting in one direction must be forth with neutral by another in the opposite direction this is what our statics teach us and what the spider puts into practice she is a past mistress of the secrets of ropebuilding without serving an apprenticeship one would think that this interrupted and apparently disordered labour must result in a confused piece of work wrong the rays are equidistant and form a beautifullyregular orb their number is a characteristic mark of the different species the angular epeira places in her web the banded epeira the silky epeira these numbers are not absolutely fixed but the variation is very slight now which of us would undertake off hand without much preliminary experiment and without measuringinstruments to divide a circle into a given quantity of sectors of equal width the epeirae though weighted with a wallet and tottering on threads shaken by the wind effect the delicate division with out stopping to think they achieve it by a method which seems mad according to our notions of geometry out of disorder they evolve order we must not however give them more than their due the angles are only approx imately equal they satisfy the demands of the eye but cannot stand the test of strict measurement mathematical precision would be superfluous here no matter we are amazed at the result obtained how does the epeira come to succeed with her difficult problem so strangely managed i am still asking myself the question the laying of the radii is finished the spider takes her place in the centre on the little cushion formed of the inaugural sign post and the bits of thread left over sta tioned on this support she slowly turns round and round she is engaged on a delicate piece of work with an extremely thin thread she describes from spoke to spoke starting from the centre a spiral line with very close coils the central space thus worked attains in the adults webs the dimensions of the palm of ones hand in the younger spiders webs it is much smallpr but it is never absent for reasons which i will explain in the course of this study i shall call it in future the restingfloor the thread now becomes thicker the first could hardly be seen the second is plainly visible the spider shifts her position with great slanting strides turns a few times mov ing farther and farther from the centre fixes her line each time to the spoke which she crosses and at last comes to a stop at the lower edge of the frame she has described a spiral with coils of rapidlyincreasing width the average distance between the coils even in the structures of the young epeiras is one centimetre let us not be misled by the word spiral which conveys the notion of a curved line all curves are banished from the spiders work nothing is used but the straight line and its combinations all that is aimed at is a polygonal line drawn in a curve as geometry understands it to this polygonal line a work destined to disappear as the real toils are woven i will give the name of the auxiliary spiral its object is to supply crossbars supporting rungs especially in the outer zone where the radii are too distant from one another to afford a suitable groundwork its object is also to guide the epeira in the ex tremely delicate business which she is now about to undertake but before that one last task becomes essential the area occupied by the spokes is inch  translators note very irregular being marked out by the sup ports of the branch which are infinitely variable there are angular niches which if skirted too closely would disturb the sym metry of the web about to be constructed the epeira needs an exact space wherein gradually to lay her spiral thread more over she must not leave any gaps through which her prey might find an outlet an expert in these matters the spider soon knows the comers that have to be filled up with an alternating movement first in this direction then in that she lays upon the support of the radii a thread that forms two acute angles at the lateral boundaries of the faulty part and describes a zigzag line not wholly unlike the ornament known as the fret the sharp comers have now been filled with frets on every side the time has come to work at the essential part the snaringweb for which all the rest is but a support cling ing on the one hand to the radii on the other to the chords of the auxiliary spiral the epeira covers the same ground as when lay ing the spiral but in the opposite direction formerly she moved away from the centre now she moves towards it and with closer and more numerous circles she starts from the base of the auxiliary spiral near the frame what follows is difficult to observe for the movements are very quick and spasmodic consisting of a series of sudden little rushes sways and bends that bewilder the eye it needs continuous attention and repeated examination to distinguish the progress of the work however slightly the two hindlegs the weaving imple ments keep going constantly let us name them according to their position on the work floor i call the leg that faces the centre of the coil when the animal moves the inner leg the one outside the coil the outer leg the latter draws the thread from the spin neret and passes it to the inner leg which with a graceful movement lays it on the radius crossed at the same time the first leg measures the distance it grips the last coil placed in position and brings within a suitable range that point of the radius whereto the thread is to be fixed as soon as the radius is touched the thread sticks to it by its own glue there are no slow operations no knots the fixing is done of itself meanwhile turning by narrow degrees the spinstress approaches the auxiliary chords that have just served as her support when in the end these chords become too close they will have to go they would impair the sym metry of the work the spider therefore clutches and holds on to the rungs of a higher row she picks up one by one as she goes along those which are of no more use to her and gathers them into a finespun ball at the contactpoint of the next spoke hence arises a series of silky atoms marking the course of the disappearing spiral the light has to fall favourably for us to perceive these specks the only remains of the ruined auxiliary thread one would take them for grains of dust if the faultless reg ularity of their distribution did not remind us of the vanished spiral they continue still visible until the final collapse of the net and the spider without a stop of any kind turns and turns and turns drawing nearer to the centre and repeating the operation of fix ing her thread at each spoke which she crosses a good halfhour an hour even among the fullgrown spiders is spent on spiral circles to the number of about fifty for the web of the silky epcira and thirty for those of the banded and the angular epeira at last at some distance from the centre on the borders of what i have called the restingfloor the spider abruptly terminates her spiral when the space would still allow of a certain number of turns we shall sec the reason of this sudden stop presently next the epeira no matter which young or old hurriedly flings herself upon the little central cushion pulls it out and rolls it into a ball which i expected to see thrown away but no her thrifty nature does not permit this waste she eats the cushion at iirst an inaugural landmark then a heap of bits of thread she once more melts in the digestive crucible what is no doubt intended to be re stored to the silken treasury it is a tough mouthful difficult for the stomach to elabo rate still it is precious and must not be lost the work finishes with the swallowing then and there the spider instals herself head downwards at her huntingpost in the centre of the web the operation which we have just seen gives rise to a reflection men are bom right handed thanks to a lack of synunetry diat has never been explained our right side is stronger and readier in its movements than our left the inequality is especially notice able in the two hands our language ex presses this supremacy of the favoured side in the terms dexterity adroitness and address all of which allude to the right hand is the animal on its side righthanded lefthanded or unbiased we have had opportunities of showing that the cricket the grasshopper and many others draw their bow which is on the right wingcase over the sounding apparatus which is on the left wing case they are righthanded when you and i take an unpremeditated turn we spin round on our right heel the left side the weaker moves on the pivot of the right the stronger in the same way nearly all the molluscs that have spiral shells roll their coils from left to right among the numerous species in both land and water fauna only a very few are exceptional and turn from right to left it would be interesting to try and work out to what extent that part of the zoological kingdom which boasts a twosided structure is divided into righthanded and lefthanded animals can dissmymetry that source of contrasts be a general rule or are there neutrals endowed with equal powers of skill and energy on both sides yes there are and the spider is one of them she enjoys the very enviable privilege of possessing a left side which is no less capable than the right she is ambidextrous as witness the following observations when laying her snaringthread every epeira turns in either direction indifferently as a close watch will prove reasons whose secret escapes us determine the direction adopted once this or the other course is taken the spinstress does not change it even after incidents that sometimes occur to disturb the progress of the work it may happen that a gnat gets caught in the part already woven the spider thereupon abruptly in terrupts her labours hastens up to the prey binds it and then returns to where she stopped and continues the spiral in the same order as before at the commencement of the work gyra tion in one direction being employed as well as gyration in the other we see that when making her repeated webs the same epeira turns now her right side now her left to the centre of the coil well as we have said it is always with the inner hindleg the leg nearer the centre that is to say in some cases the right and in some cases the left leg that she places the thread in position an exceed ingly delicate operation calling for the dis play of exquisite skill because of the quickness of the action and the need for preserving strictly equal distances any one seeing this leg working with such extreme precision the right leg today the left tomorrow be comes convinced that the epeira is highly ambidextrous a ge docs not modify the epeiras talent in any essential feature as the young worked so do the old the richer by a years experience there are no masters nor apprentices in their guild all know their craft from the moment that the first thread is laid we have learnt something from the novices let us now look into the matter of their elders and see what additional task the needs of age impose upon them july comes and gives me exactly what i wish for while the new inhabitants are twisting their ropes on the rosemaries in the enclosure one evening by the last gleams of twilight i discover a splendid spider with a mighty belly just outside my door this one is a matron she dates back to last year her majestic corpulence so exceptional at this season proclaims the fact i know her for the angular epeira epeira angulata walck clad in grey arid girdled with two dark stripes that meet in a point at the back the base of her abdomen swells into a short nipple on either side this neighbour will certainly serve my turn provided that she do not work too late at night things bode well i catch the buxom one in the act of laying her first threads at this rate my success need not be won at the expense of sleep and in fact i am able throughout the month of july and the greater part of august from eight to ten oclock in the evening to watch the construc tion of the web which is more or less ruined nightly by the incidents of the chase and built up again next day when too seriously dilapidated during the two stifling months when the light fails and a spell of coolness follows upon the furnaceheat of the day it is easy for me lantern in hand to watch my neighbours various operations she has taken up her abode at a convenient height for observation between a row of cypresstrees and a clump of laurels near the entrance to an alley haunted by moths the spot appears wellchosen for the epeira does not change it throughout the season though she renews her net almost every night punctually as darkness falls our whole family goes and calls upon her big and little we stand amazed at her wealth of belly and her exuberant somersaults in the maze of quivering ropes we admire the faultless geometry of the net as it gradually takes shape all agleam in the lanternlight the work becomes a fairy orb which seems woven of moonbeams should i linger in my anxiety to clear up certain details the household which by this time is in bed waits for my return before going to sleep what has she been doing this evening i am asked has she finished her web has she caught a moth i describe what has happened tomorrow they will be in a less hurry to go to bed they will want to see everything to the very end what delightful simple evenings we have spent looking into the spiders workshop the journal of the angular epeira written up day by day teaches us first of all how she obtains the ropes that form the framework of the building all day in visible crouching amid the cypressleaves the spider at about eight oclock in the evening solemnly emerges from her retreat and makes for the top of a branch in this exalted posi tion she sits for some time laying her plans with due regard to the locality she consults the weather ascertains if the night will be fine then suddenly with her eight legs wide spread she lets herself drop straight down hanging to the line that issues from her spin nerets just as the ropemaker obtains the even output of his hemp by walking back wards so does the epeira obtain the discharge of hers by falling it is extracted by the weight of her body the descent however has not the brute speed which the force of gravity would give it if uncontrolled it is governed by the action of the spinnerets which contract or ex pand their pores or close them entirely at the fallers pleasure and so with gentle moderation she pays out this living plumb line of which my lantern clearly shows me the plumb but not always the line the great squab seems at such times to be sprawling in space without the least support she comes to an abrupt stop two inches from the ground the silkreel ceases working the spider turns round clutches the line which she has just obtained and climbs up by this road still spinning but this time as she is no longer assisted by the force of gravity the thread is extracted in another manner the two hindlegs with a quick alternate action draw it from the wallet and let it go on returning to her startingpoint at a height of six feet or more the spider is now in possession of a double line bent into a loop and floating loosely in a current of air she fixes her end where it suits her and waits until the other end wafted by the wind has fastened its loop to the adjacent twigs the desired result may be very slow in coming it does not tire the unfailing patience of the epeira but it soon wears out mine and it has happened to me sometimes to collaborate with the spider i pick up the floating loop with a straw and lay it on a branch at a convenient height the foot bridge erected with my assistance is con sidered satisfactory just as though the wind had placed it i count this collaboration among the good actions standing to my credit feeling her thread fixed the epeira runs along it repeatedly from end to end adding a fibre to it on each journey whether i help or not this forms the suspensioncable the main piece of the framework i call it a cable in spite of its extreme thinness because of its structure it looks as though it were single but at the two ends it is seen to divide and spread tuftwise into numerous constit uent parts which are the product of as many crossings these diverging fibres with their several contactpoints increase the steadiness of the two extremities the suspensioncable is incomparably stronger than the rest of the work and lasts for an indefinite time the web is generally shattered after the nights hunting and is nearly always rewoven on the following evening after the removal of the wreckage it is made all over again on the same site cleared of everything except the cable from which the new network is to hang the laying of this cable is a somewhat difficult matter because the success of the en terprise does not depend upon the animals industry alone it has to wait until a breeze carries the line to the pierhead in the bushes sometimes a calm prevails sometimes the thread catches at an unsuitable point this involves great expenditure of time with no certainty of success and so when once the suspensioncable is in being well and solidly placed the epeira does not change it except on critical occasions every evening she passes and repasses over it strengthening it with fresh threads when the epeira cannot manage a fall of sufficient depth to give her the double line with its loop to be fixed at a distance she em ploys another method she lets herself down and then climbs up again as we have already seen but this time the thread ends suddenly in a filmy hairpencil a tuft whose parts remain disjoined just as they come from the spinnerets rose then this sort of bushy foxs brush is cut short as though with a pair of scissors and the whole thread when un furled doubles its length which is now enough for the purpose it is fastened by the end joined to the spider the other floats in the air with its spreading tuft which easily tangles in the bushes even so must the banded epeira go to work when she throws her daring suspensionbridge across a stream once the cable is laid in this way or in that the spider is in possession of a base that allows her to approach or withdraw from the leafy piers at will from the height of the cable the upper boundary of the projected works she lets herself slip to a slight depth varying the points of her fall she climbs up again by the line produced by her descent the result of the operation is a double thread which is unwound while the spider walks along her big footbridge to the contact branch where she fixes the free end of her thread more or less low down in this way she obtains to right and left a few slanting crossbars connecting the cable with the branches these crossbars in their turn support others in everchanging directions when there are enough of them the epeira need no longer resort to falls in order to extract her threads she goes from one cord to the next always wiredrawing with her hindlegs and placing her produce in position as she goes this results in a combination of straight lines owning no order save that they are kept in one nearly perpendicular plane they mark a very irregular polygonal area wherein the web itself a work of magnificent regularity shall presently be woven ass it is unnecessary to go over the construc tion of the masterpiece again the younger spiders have taught us enough in this respect in both cases we see the same equidistant radii laid with a central landmark for a guide the same auxiliary spiral the scaffold ing of temporary rungs soon doomed to dis appear the same snaringspiral with its maze of closelywoven coils let us pass on other details call for our attention the laying of the snaringspiral is an ex ceedingly delicate operation because of the regularity of the work i was bent upon knowing whether if subjected to the din of unaccustomed sounds the spider would hesitate and blunder does she work imper turbably or does she need undisturbed quiet as it is i know that my presence and that of my light hardly trouble her at all the sudden flashes emitted by my lantern have no power to distract her from her task she continues to turn in the light even as she turned in the dark neither faster nor slower this is a good omen for the experiment which i have in view the first sunday in august is the feast of the patron saint of the village commemorat ing the finding of st stephen this is tues day the third day of the rejoicings there will be fireworks tonight at nine oclock to conclude the merrymakings they will take place on the highroad outside my door at a few steps from the spot where my spider is working the spinstress is busy upon her great spiral at the very moment when the village bigwigs arrive with trumpet and drum and small boys carrying torches more interested in animal psychology than in pyrotechnical displays i watch the epeiras doings lantern in hand the hul labaloo of the crowd the reports of the mortars the crackle of roman candles burst ing in the sky the hiss of the rockets the rain of sparks the sudden flashes of white red or blue light none of this disturbs the worker who methodically turns and turns again just as she does in the peace of ordinary evenings once before the gun which i fired under the planetrees failed to trouble the concert of the cicadae today the dazzling light of the firewheels and the splutter of the crackers do not avail to distract the spider from her weaving and after all what diflferencc would it make to my neighbour if the world fell in i the village could be blown up with djmamite without her losing her head for such a trifle she would calmly go on with her web let us return to the spider manufacturing her net under the usual tranquil conditions the great spiral has been finished abruptly on the confines of the restingfloor the central cushion a mat of ends of saved thread is next pulled up and eaten but be fore indulging in this mouthful which closes the proceedings two spiders the only two of the order the banded and the silky epeira have still to sign their work a broad white ribbon is laid in a thick zigzag from the centre to the lower edge of the orb some times but not always a second band of the same shape and of lesser length occupies the upper portion opposite the first i like to look upon these odd flourishes as consolidatinggear to begin with the young epeira never use them for the moment heedless of the future and lavish of their silk they remake their web nightly even though it be none too much dilapidated and might well serve again a brandnew snare at sun set is the rule with them and there is little need for increased solidity when the work has to be done again on the morrow on the other hand in the late autumn the fullgrown spiders feeling layingtime at hand are driven to practise economy in view of the great expenditure of silk required for the eggbag owing to its large size the net now becomes a costly work which it were well to use as long as possible for fear of finding ones reserves exhausted when the time comes for the expensive construction of the nest for this reason or for others which escape me the banded and the silky epeirae think it wise to produce durable work and to strengthen their toils with a crossribbon the other epeirae who are put to less ex pense in the fabrication of their maternal wallet  a mere pill  are unacquainted with the zigzag binder and like the younger spiders reconstruct their web almost nightly my fat neighbour the angular epeira consulted by the light of a lantern shall tell us how the renewal of the net proceeds as the twilight fades she comes down cautiously from her daydwelling she leaves the foliage of the cypresses for the suspensioncable of her snare here she stands for some time then descending to her web she collects the wreckage in great armfuls everything  spiral spokes and frame  is raked up with her legs one thing alone is spared and that is the suspensioncable the sturdy piece of work that has served as a foundation for the previous buildings and will serve for the new after receiving a few strengthening repairs the collected ruins form a pill which the spider consumes with the same greed that she would show in swallowing her prey noth ing remains this is the second instance of the spiders supreme economy of their silk we have seen them after the manufacture of the net eating the central guidepost a modest mouthful wc now see them gobbling up the whole web a meal refined and turned into fluid by the stomach the materials of the old net will serve for other purposes as soon as the site is thoroughly cleared the work of the frame and the net begins on the support of the suspensioncable which was respected would it not be simpler to restore the old web which might serve many times yet if a few rents were just repaired one would say so but does the spider know how to patch her work as a thrifty housewife dams her linen that is the question to mend severed meshes to replace broken threads to adjust the new to the old in short to restore the original order by assem bling the wreckage would be a farreaching feat of prowess a very fine proof of gleams of intelligence capable of performing ra tional calculations our menders excel in this class of work they have as their guide their sense which measures the holes cuts the new piece to size and fits it into its proper place does the spider possess the counterpart of this habit of clear thinking people declare as much without ap parently looking into the matter very closely they seem able to dispense with the con scientious observers scruples when inflating their bladder of theory they go straight ahead and that is enough as for ourselves less greatly daring we will first enquire we will see by experiment if the spider really knows how to repair her work the angular epeira that near neighbour who has already supplied me with so many documents has just finished her web at nine ovlock in the evening it is a splendid night calm and warm favourable to the rounds of the moths all promises good hunting at the moment when after completing the great spiral the epeira is about to eat the central cushion and settle down upon her resting floor i cut the web in two diagonally with a pair of sharp scissors the sagging of the spokes deprived of their counteragents pro duces an empty space wide enough for three fingers to pass through the spider retreats to her cable and looks on without being greatly frightened when i have done she quietly returns she takes her stand on one of the halves at the spot which was the centre of the original orb but as her legs find no footing on one side she soon realizes that the snare is defective thereupon two threads are stretched across the breach two threads no more the legs that lacked a foothold spread across them and henceforth the epeira moves no more devoting her attention to the incidents of the chase when i saw those two threads laid joining the edges of the rent i began to hope that i was to witness a mendingprocess the spider said i to myself will increase the number of those crossthreads from end to end of the breach and though the added piece may not match the rest of the work at least it will fill the gap and the continuous sheet will be of the same use practically as the regular web the reality did not answer to my expecta tion the splnstress made no further en deavour all night she hunted with her riven net for what it was worth for i found the web next morning in the same condition wherein i had left it on the night before there had been no mending of any kind the two threads stretched across the breach even must not be taken for an attempt at repairing finding no foothold for her legs on one side the spider went to look into the state of things and in so doing crossed the rent in going and returning she left a thread as is the custom with all the epeirs when walking it was not a deliberate mend ing but the mere result of an uneasy change of place perhaps the subject of my experiment thought it unnecessary to go to fresh trouble and expense for the web can serve quite well as it is after my scissorcut the two halves together represent the original snaring surface all that the spider seated in a central position need do is to find the requisite support for her spread legs the two threads stretched from side to side of the cleft supply her with this or nearly my mischief did not go far enough let us devise something better next day the web is renewed after the old one has been swallowed when the work is done and the epeira seated motionless at her central post i take a straw and wielding it dexterously so as to respect the restingfloor and the spokes i pull and root up the spiral which dangles in tatters with its snaring threads ruined the net is useless no passing moth would allow herelf to be caught now what does the epeira do in the face of this disaster nothing at all motionless on her restingfloor which i have left intact she awaits the capture of the game she awaits it all night in vain on her impotent web in the morning i find the snare as i left it neces sity the mother oif invention has not prompted the spider to make a slight repair in her ruined toils possibly this is asking too much of her a resources the silkglands may be exhausted after the laying of the great spiral and to repeat the same expenditure immediately is out of the question i want a case where in there could be no appeal to any such exhaustion i obtain it thanks to my assiduity while i am watching the rolling of the spiral a head of game rushes full tilt into the unfinished snare the epeira interrupts her work hurries to the giddypate swathes him and takes her fill of him where he lies dur ing the struggle a section of the web has torn under the weavers very eyes a great gap endangers the satisfactory working of the net what will the spider do in the presence of this grievous rent now or never is the time to repair the broken threads the accident has happened this very moment between the animals legs it is certainly known and moreover the rope works are in full swing this time there is no question of the exhaustion of the silk warehouse well under these conditions so favorable to darning the epeira does no mending at all she flings aside her prey after taking a few sips at it and resumes her spiral at the point where she interrupted it to attack the moth the torn part remains as it is the machineshuttle in our looms does not revert to the spoiled fabric even so with the spider working at her web and this is no case of distraction of individual carelessness all the large spin stresses suffer from a similar incapacity for patching the banded epeira and the silky epeira are noteworthy in this respect the angular epeira remakes her web nearly every evening the other two reconstruct theirs only very seldom and use them even when extremely dilapidated they go on hunting with shapeless rags before they bring them selves to weave a new web the old one has to be ruined beyond recognition well i have often noted the state of one of these ruins and the next morning i have found it as it was or even more dilapidated never any repairs never never i am sorry because of the reputation which our hardpressed theorists have given her but the spider is absolutely unable to mend her work in spite of her thoughtful appearance the epeira is incapable of the modicum of reflexion required to insert a piece into an accidental other spiders are unacquainted with wide meshed nets and weave satins wherein the threads crossing at random form a contin uous substance among this number is the house spider tegenaria domestica lin in the comers of our rooms she stretches wide webs fixed by angular extensions the bestprotected nook at one side contains the owners secret apartment it is a silk tube a gallery with a conical opening whence the spider sheltered from the eye watches events the rest of the fabric which exceeds our finest muslins in delicacy is not properly speaking a huntingimplement it is a plat form whereon the spider attending to the affairs of her estate goes her rounds espe cially at night the real trap consists of a confusion of lines stretched above the web the snare constructed according to other rules than in the case of the epeirae also worics differently here are no viscous threads but plain toils rendered invisible by their very number if a gnat rush into the perfidious entanglement he is caught at once and the more he struggles the more firmly is he bound the snareling falls on the sheet web tegenaria hastens up and bites him in the neck having said this let us experiment a little in the web of the house spider i make a round hole two fingers wide the hole re mains yawning all day long but next morning it is invariably closed an extremely thin gauze covers the breach the dark appearance of which contrasts with the dense whiteness of the surrounding fabric the gauze is so delicate that to make sure of its presence i use a straw rather than my eyes the move ment of the web when this part is touched proves the presence of an obstacle here the matter would appear obvious the house spider has mended her work dur ing the night she has put a patch in the torn stuff a talent unknown to the garden spiders it would be greatly to her credit if a more attentive study did not lead to another conclusion the web of the house spider is as we were saying a platform for watching and exploring it is also a sheet into which the insects caught in the overhead rigging fall this surface a domain subject to unlimited shocks is never strong enough especially as it is exposed to the additional burden of little bits of plaster loosened from the wall the owner is constantly working at it she adds a new layer nightly every time that she issues from her tubular retreat or returns to it she fixes the thread that hangs behind her upon the road covered as evidence of this work we have the direc tion of the surfacelines all of which whether straight or winding according to the fancies that guide the spiders path converge lipon the entrance of the tube each step taken beyond a doubt adds a filament to the web we have here the story of the procession ary of the pine whose habits i have related elsewhere when the caterpillars leave the silk pouch to go and browse at night and also when they enter it again they never fail to spin a little on the surface of their nest each expedition adds to the thickness of the wall when moving this way or that upon the purse which i have split from top to bottom with my scissors the processionaries upholster the processionaries are mothcaterpillars that feed on various leaves and march in file laying a silken trail as they go  translators note the breach even as they upholster the un touched part without paying more attention to it than to the rest of the wall caring nothing about the accident they behave in the same way as on a nongutted dwelling the crevice is closed in course of time not intentionally but solely by the action of the usual spinning we arrive at the same conclusion on the subject of the house spider walking about her platform every night she lays fresh courses without drawing a distinction between the solid and the hollow she has not deliberately put a patch in the torn texture she has simply gone on with her ordinary business if it happen that the hole is even tually dosed this fortunate result is the out come not of a special purpose but of an unvarying method of work besides it is evident that if the spider really wished to mend her web all her endeavours would be concentrated upon the rent she would devote to it all the silk at her disposal and obtain in one sitting a piece very like the rest of the web instead of that what do we find almost nothing a hardly visible gauze the thing is obvious the spider did on that rent what she did every elsewhere neither more nor less far from squandering silk upon it she saved her silk so as to have enough for the whole web the gap will be better mended little by little afterwards as the sheet is strengthened all over with new layers and this will take long two months later the window  my work  still shows through and makes a dark stain against the deadwhite of the fabric neither weavers nor spinners therefore know how to repair their work those wonderful manufacturers of silkstuffs lack the least glimmer of that sacred lamp reason which enables the stupidest of darningwomen to mend the heel of an old stocking the office of inspector of spiders webs would have its uses even if it merely succeeded in ridding us of a mistaken and mischievous idea the spiral network of the epcirae possesses contrivances of fearsome cun ning let us give our attention by preference to that of the banded epeira or that of the silky epeira both of which can be observed at early morning in all their freshness the thread that forms them is seen with the naked eye to differ from that of the framework and the spokes it glitters in the sun looks as though it were kjiotted and gives the impression of a chaplet of atoms to examine it through the lens on the web itself is scarcely feasible because of the shaking of the fabric which trembles at the least breath by passing a sheet of glass under the web and lifting it i take away a few pieces of thread to study pieces that remain fixed to the glass in parallel lines lens and microscope can now play their part the sight is perfectly astounding those threads on the borderland between the visible and the invisible are very closely twisted twine similar to the gold cord of our officers swordknots moreover they are hollow the infinitely slender is a tube a channel full of a viscous moisture resembling a strong solution of gum arabic i can see a diapha x nous trail of this moisture trickling through the broken ends under the pressure of the thin glass slide that covers them on the stage of the microscope the twists lengthen out become crinkled ribbons traversed from end to end through the middle by a dark streak m which is the empty container j the fluid contents must ooze slowly v b through the side of those tubular threads j j c rolled into twisted strings and thus render i the network sticky it is sticky in fact and in such a way as to provoke surprise i bring o a fine straw flat down upon three or four rungs of a sector however gentle the con co z tact adhesion is at once established when i lift the straw the threads come with it and stretch to twice or three times their length like a thread of indiarubber at last when overtaut they loosen without breaking and resume their original form they lengthen by unrolling their twist they shorten by roll ing it again lastly they become adhesive by taking the glaze of the gummy moisture wherewith they are filled in short the spiral thread is a capillary tube finer than any that our physics will ever know it is rolled into a twist so as to possess an elasticity that allows it without breaking to yield to the tugs of the captured prey it holds a supply of sticky matter in reserve in its tube so as to renew the adhesive properties of the surface by incessant exudation as they become impaired by exposure to the air it is simply marvellous the epeira hunts not with springs but with limesnares and such limesnares i everything is caught in them down to the dandelionplume that barely brushes against them nevertheless the epeira who is in constant touch with her web is not caught in them why let us first of all remember that the spider has contrived for herself in the middle of her trap a floor in whose construction the sticky spiral thread plays no part we saw how this thread stops suddenly at some distance from the centre there is here covering a space which in the larger webs is about equal to the palm of ones hand a fabric formed of spokes and of the commencement of the auxiliary spiral a neutral fabric in which the exploring straw finds no adhesiveness anywhere here on this central restingfloor and here only the epeira takes her stand waiting whole days for the arrival of the game however close however prolonged her contact with this portion of the web she runs no risk of sticking to it because the gummy coating is lacking as is the twisted and tubular structure throughout the length of the spokes and throughout the extent of the auxiliary spiral these pieces together with the rest of the framework are made of plain straight solid thread but when a victim is caught sometimes right at the edge of the web the spider has to rush up quickly to bind it and overcome its attempts to free itself she is walking then upon her network and i do not find that she suffers the least inconvenience the lime threads are not even lifted by the movements of her legs in my boyhood when a troop of us would go on thursdays to try and catch a gold finch in the hempfields we used before cover ing the twigs with glue to grease our fingers with a few drops of oil lest we should get them caught in the sticky matter does the epeira know the secret of fatty substances let us try i rub my exploring straw with slightly oiled paper when applied to the spiral thread of the web it now no longer sticks to it the principle is discovered i pull out the leg of a live epeira brought just as it is into con tact with the limethreads it does not stick to them any more than to the neutral cords whether spokes or parts of the framework we were entitled to expect this judging by the spiders general immunity but here is something that wholly alters the result i put the leg to soak for a quarter of an hour in disulphide of carbon the best solvent of fatty matters i wash it carefully with a brush dipped in the same fluid when this washing is finished the leg sticks to the sna ringthread quite easily and adheres to it the weekly halfholiday in french schools  trans lators note just as well as anything else would the unoued straw for instance did i guess aright when i judged that it was a fatty substance that preserved the epeira from the snares of her sticky catherinewheel the action of the carbon disulphide seems to say yes besides there is no reason why a substance of this kind which plays so frequent a part in animal economy should not coat the spider very slightly by the mere act of perspiration we used to rub our fingers with a little oil before handling the twigs in which the goldfinch was to be caught even so the epeira varnishes herself with a special sweat to operate on any part of her web without fear of the limethreads however an unduly protracted stay on the sticky threads would have its drawbacks in the long run continual contact with those threads might produce a certain adhesion and inconvenience the spider who must preserve all her agility in order to rush upon the prey before it can release itself for this reason gummy threads are never used in building the post of interminable waiting it is only on her restingfloor that the epeira sits motionless and with her eight legs outspread ready to mark the least quiver in the net it is here again that she takes her meals often longdrawnout when the joint is a substantial one it is hither that after trussing and nibbling it she drags her prey at the end of a thread to consume it at her ease on a nonviscous mat as a huntingpost and refectory the epeira has contrived a central space free from glue as for the glue itself it is hardly possible to study its chemical properties because the quantity is so slight the microscope shows it trickling from the broken threads in the form of a transparent and more or less gran ular streak the following experiment will tell us more about it with a sheet of glass passed across the web i gather a series of limethreads which remain fixed in parallel lines i cover this sheet with a belljar standing in a depth of water soon in this atmosphere saturated with humidity the threads become enveloped in a watery sheath which gradually increases and begins to flow the twisted shape has by this time disappeared and the channel of the thread reveals a chaplet of translucent orbs that is to ay a series of extremely fine drops in twentyfour hours the threads have lost their contents and are reduced to almost in visible streaks if i then lay a drop of water on the glass i get a sticky solution similar to that which a particle bf gum arabic might yield the conclusion is evident the epeiras glue is a substance that absorbs moisture freely in an atmosphere with a high degree of humidity it becomes saturated and perco lates by sweating through the side of the tubular threads these data explain certain facts relating to the work of the net the fullgrown banded and silky epeirae weave at very early hours long before dawn should the air turn misty they sometimes leave that part of the task unfinished they build the general framework they lay the spokes they even draw the auxili ary spiral for all these parts are unaffected by excess of moisture but they arc very careful not to work at the limethreads which if soaked by the fog would dissolve into sticky shreds and lose their efficacy by being wetted the net that was started will be finished to morrow if the atmosphere be favourable while the highlyabsorbent character of the snaringthread has its drawbacks it also has compensating advantages both epeirae when hunting by day affect those hot places exposed to the fierce rays of the sun wherein the crickets delight in the torrid heats of the dogdays therefore the limethreads but for special provisions would be liable to dry up to shrivel into stiff and lifeless fila ments but the very opposite happens at the most scorching times of the day they continue supple elastic and more and more adhesive how is this brought about by their very powers of absorption the moisture of which the air is never deprived penetrates them slowly it dilutes the thick contents of their tubes to the requisite degree and causes it to ooze through as and when the earlier stick iness decreases what birdcatcher could vie with the garden spider in the art of laying limesnares and all this industry and cun ning for the capture of a moth then too what a passion for production knowing the diameter of the orb and the number of coils we can easily calculate the total length of the sticky spiral we find that in one sitting each time that she remakes her web the angular epeira produces some twenty yards of gummy thread the more skilful silky epeira produces thirty well during two months the angular epeira my neighbour renewed her snare nearly every evening during that period she manufac tured something like threequarters of a mile of this tubular thread rolled into a tight twist and bulging with glue i should like an anatomist endowed with better implements than mine and with less tired eyesight to explain to us the work of the marvellous ropeyard how is the silky mat ter moulded into a capillary tube how is this tube filled with glue and tightly twisted and how does this same wiremill also turn out plain threads wrought first into a frame work and then into muslin and satin next a russet foam such as fills the wallet of the banded epeira next the black stripes stretched in meridian curves on that same wallet what a number of products to come from that curious factory a spiders belly i behold the results but fail to understand the working of the machine i leave the problem to the masters of the microtome and the scalpel of the six garden spiders that form the object of my observations two only the banded and the silky epeira remain con stantly in their webs even under the blinding rays of a fierce sun the others as a rule do not show themselves until nightfall at some distance from the net they have a rough and ready retreat in the brambles an ambush made of a few leaves held together by stretched threads it is here that for the most part they remain in the daytime motionless and sunk in meditation but the shrill light that vexes them is the joy of the fields at such times the locust hops more nimbly than ever more gaily skims the dragonfly besides the limy web despite the rents suffered during the night is still in serviceable condition if some giddypate allow himself to be caught will the spider at the distance whereto she has retired be unable to take advantage of the windfall never fear she arrives in a flash how is she apprised let us explain the matter the alarm is given by the vibration of the web much more than by the sight of the cap tured object a very simple experiment will prove this i lay upon a banded epeiras limethreads a locust that second asphyxiated with carbon disulphide the carcass is placed in front or behind or at either side of the spider who sits moveless in the centre of the net if the test is to be applied to a species with a daytime hidingplace amid the foliage the dead locust is laid on the web more or less near the centre no matter how in both cases nothing happens at first the epeira remains in her motionless attitude even when the morsel is at a short distance in front of her she is indifferent to the presence of the game does not seem to per ceive it so much so that she ends by wearing out my patience then with a long straw which enables me to conceal myself slightly i set the dead insect trembling that is quite enough the banded epeira and the silky epeira hasten to the central floor the others come down from the branch all go to the locust swathe him with tape treat him in short as they would treat a live prey captured under normal conditions it took the shaking of the web to decide them to attack perhaps the grey colour of the locust is not sufficiently conspicuous to attract attention by itself then let us try red the brightest colour to our retina and probably also to the spiders none of the game hunted by the epeirae being clad in scarlet i make a small bundle out of red wool a bait of the size of a locust i glue it to the web my stratagem succeds as long as the parcel is stationary the spider is not roused but the moment it trembles stirred by my straw she runs up eagerly there are silly ones who just touch the thing with their legs and without further en quiries swathe it in silk after the manner of the usual game they even go so far as to dig their fangs into the bait following the rule of the preliminary poisoning then and then only the mistake is recogn and the tricked spider retires and does not come back unless it be long afterwards when she flings the lumbersome object out of the web there are also clever ones like the others these hasten to the redwoollen lure which my straw insidiously keeps moving they come from their tent among the leaves as readily as from the centre of the web they explore it with their palpi and their legs but soon perceiving that the thing is valueless they are careful not to spend their silk on useless bonds my quivering bait does not deceive them it is flung out after a brief inspection still the clever ones like the silly ones run even from a distance from their leafy am bush how do they know certainly not by sight before recognizing their mistake they have to hold the object between their legs and even to nibble at it a little they are ex tremely shortsighted at a handvbreadths distance the lifeless prey unable to shake the web remains unperceived besides in many cases the hunting takes place in the dense darkness of the night when sight even if it were good would not avail if the eyes are insufficient guides even close at hand how will it be when the prey has to be spied from afar i in that case an intelligenceapparatus for longdistance work becomes indispensable we have no difficulty in detecting the apparatus let us look attentively behind the web of any epeira with a daytime hidingplace we shall see a thread that starts from the centre of the network ascends in a slanting line out side the plane of the web and ends at the am bush where the spider lurks all day except at the central point there is no connection be tween this thread and the rest of the work no interweaving with the scaffoldingthreads free of impediment the line runs straight from the centre of the net to the ambushtent its length averages twentytwo inches the angular epeira settled high up in the trees has shown me some as long as eight or nine feet there is no doubt that this slanting line is a footbridge which allows the spider to re pair hurriedly to the web when summoned by urgent business and then when her round is finished to return to her hut in fact it is the road which i see her follow in going and coming but is that all no for if the epeira had no aim in view but a means of rapid transit between her tent and the net the footbridge would be fastened to the upper edge of the web the journey would be shorter and the slope less steep why moreover does this line always start in the centre of the sticky network and never elsewhere because that is the point where the spokes meet and therefore the common centre of vibration anything that moves upon the web sets it shaking all then that is needed is a thread issuing from this central point to convey to a distance the news of a prey struggling in some part or other of the net the slanting cord extending outside the plane of the web is more than a footbridge it is above all a signallingapparatus a telegraphwire let us try experiment i place a locust on the network caught in the sticky toils he plunges about forthwith the spider issues impetuously from her hut comes down the footbridge makes a rush for the locust wraps him up and operates on him according to rule soon after she hoists him fastened by a line to her spinneret and drags him to her hidingplace where a long banquet will be held so far nothing new things happen as usual i leave the spider to mind her own affairs for some days before i interfere with her i again propose to give her a locust but this time i first cut the signallingthread with a touch of the scissors without shaking any part of the edifice the game is then laid on the web complete success the entangled insect struggles sets the net quivering the spider on her side does not stir as though heedless of events the idea might occur to one that in this business the epeira stays motionless in her cabin since she is prevented from hurrying down because the footbridge is broken let us undeceive ourselves for one road open to her there are a hundred all ready to bring her to the place where her presence is now re quired the network is fastened to the branches by a host of lines all of them very easy to cross well the epeira embarks upon none of them but remains moveless and selfabsorbed why because her telegraph being out of order no longer tells her of the shaking of the web the captured prey is too far off for her to see it she is all unwitting a good hour passes with the locust still kicking the spider impassive myself watching nevertheless in the end the epeira wakes up no longer feel ing the signallingthread broken by my scissors as taut as usual under her legs she comes to enquire into the state of things the web is reached without the least difficulty by one of the lines of the framework the first that offers the locust is then perceived and forthwith enswathed after which the signal lingthread is remade taking the place of the one which i have broken along this road the spider goes home dragging her prey behind her my neighbour the mighty angular epeira with her telegraphwire nine feet long has even better things in store for me one morn ing i find her web which is now deserted almost intact a proof that the nights hunting has not been good the animal must be hungry with a piece of game for a bait i hope to bring her down from her lofty retreat i entangle in the web a rare morsel a dragonfly who struggles desperately and sets the whole net ashaking the other up above leaves her lurkingplace amid the cypress foliage strides swiftly down along her telegraphwire comes to the dragonfly trusses her and at once climbs home again by the same road with her prize dangling at her heels by a thread the final sacrifice will take place in the quiet of the leafy sanctuary a few days later i renew my experiment under the same conditions but this time i first cut the signallingthread in vain i select a large dragonfly a very restless prisoner in vain i exert my patience the spider does not come down all day her telegraph being broken she receives no notice of what is hap pening nine feet below the entangled morsel remains where it lies not despised but un known at nightfall the epeira leaves her cabin passes over the ruins of her web finds the dragonfly and eats her on the spot after which the net is renewed one of the epeirae whom i have had the opportunity of examining simplifies the system while retaining the essential mechan ism of a transmissionthread this is the crater epeira epeira crater a walck a species seen in spring at which time she indulges especially in the chase of the domestic bee upon the flowering rosemaries at the leafy end of a branch she builds a sort of silken shell the shape and size of an acorn cup this is where she sits with her paunch contained in the round cavity and her fore legs resting on the ledge ready to leap the lazy creature loves this position and rarely stations herself head downwards on the web as do the others cosily ensconced in the hollow of her cup she awaits the approaching game her web which is vertical as is the rule among the epeirae is of a fair size and always very near the bowl wherein the spider takes her ease moreover it touches the bowl by means of an angular extension and the angle always contains one spoke which the epeira seated so to speak in her crater has con stantly under her legs this spoke springing from the common focus of the vibrations from all parts of the network is eminently fitted to keep the spider informed of whatsoever hap pens it has a double office it forms part of the catherinewheel supporting the lime threads and it warns the epeira by its vibra tions a special thread is here superfluous the other snarers on the contrary who occupy a distant retreat by day cannot do without a private wire that keeps them in per manent communication with the deserted web all of them have one in point of fact but only when age comes age prone to rest and to long slumbers in their youth the epeirs who are then very wideawake know nothing of the art of telegraphy besides their web a shortlived work whereof hardly a trace re mains on the morrow does not allow of this kind of industry it is no use going to the expense of a signallingapparatus for a ruined snare wherein nothing can now be caught only the old spiders meditating or dozing in their green tent are warned from afar by telegraph of what takes place on the web to save herself from keeping a close watch that would degenerate into drudgery and to remain alive to events even when resting with her back turned on the net the ambushed spider always has her foot upon the telegraph wire of my observations on this subject let me relate the following which will be suf ficient for our purpose an angular epeira with a remarkably fine belly has spun her web between two laurestineshrubs covering a width of nearly a yard the sun beats upon the snare which is abandoned long before dawn the spider is in her day manor a resort easily discovered by following the telegraphwire it is a vaulted chamber of dead leaves joined to gether with a few bits of silk the refuge is deep the spider disappears in it entirely all but her rounded hindquarters which bar the entrance to the donjon with her front half plunged into the back of her hut the epeira certainly cannot see her web even if she had good sight instead of being purblind her position could not possibly allow her to keep the prey in view does she give up hunting during this period of bright sunlight not at all look again wonderful one of her hindlegs is stretched outside the leafy cabin and the signallingthread ends just at the tip of that leg whoso has not seen the epeira in this attitude with her hand so to speak on the telegraphreceiver knows nothing of one of the most curious instances of animal clever ness let any game appear upon the scene and the slumberer forthwith aroused by means of the leg receiving the vibrations hastens up a locust whom i myself lay on the web pro cures her this agreeable shock and what fol lows if she is satisfied with her bag i am still more satisfied with what i have learnt the occasion is too good not to find out under better conditions as regards approach what the inhabitant of the cypresstrees has already shown me the next morning i cut the telegraphwire this time as long as ones arm and held like yesterday by one of the hindlegs stretched outside the cabin i then place on the web a double prey a dragonfly and a locust the latter kicks out with his long spurred shanks the other flutters her wings the web is tossed about to such an extent that a number of leaves just beside the epeiras nest move shaken by the threads of the framework affixed to them and this vibration though so close at hand does not rouse the spider in the least does not make her even turn round to enquire what is going on the moment that her signallingthread ceases to work she knows nothing of passing events all day long she remains without stirring in the evening at eight oclock she sallies forth to weave the new web and at last finds the rich windfall whereof she was hitherto unaware one word more the web is often shaken by the wind the different parts of the framework tossed and teased by the eddying aircurrents cannot fail to transmit their vi bration to the signallingthread nevertheless the spider does not quit her hut and remains indifferent to the commotion prevailing in the net her line therefore is something better than a bellrope that pulls and communicates the impulse given it is a telephone capable like our own of transmitting infinitesimal waves of sound clutching her telephonewire with a toe the spider listens with her leg she perceives the innermost vibrations she dis tinguishes between the vibration proceeding from a prisoner and the mere shaking caused by the wind notwithstanding the importance of the subject i shall not enlarge upon the nuptials of the epeirae grim natures whose loves easily turn to tragedy in the mystery of the night i have but once been present at the pairing and for this curious experience i must thank my lucky star and my fat neighbour the angular epeira whom i visit so often by lanternlight here you have it it is the first week of august at about nine oclock in the evening under a perfect sky in calm hot weather the spider has not yet constructed her web and is sitting motionless on her suspensioncable the fact that she should be slacking like this at a time when her buildingoperations ought to be in full swing naturally astonishes me can something un usual be afoot even so i see hastening up from the neighbouring bushes and embarking on the cable a male a dwarf who is coming the whippersnapper to pay his respects to the portly giantess how has he in his distant corner heard of the presence of the nymph ripe for marriage among the spiders these things are learnt in the silence of the night without a summons without a signal none knows how once the great peacock apprised by the magic effluvia used to come from miles around to visit the recluse in her belljar in my study the dwarf of this evening that other nocturnal pilgrim crosses the intricate tangle of the branches without a mistake and makes straight for the ropewalker he has as his guide the infallible compass that brings every jack and his jill together he climbs the slope of the suspension cord he advances circumspectly step by step he stops some distance away irresolute shall he go closer is this the right moment no the other lifts a limb and the scared visitor hurries down again recovering from his fright he climbs up once more draws a cf social life in the insect world by j h fabrc translated by bernard miall chap xiy translators note little nearer more sudden flights followed by fresh approaches each time nigher than before this restless running to and fro is the declaration of the enamoured swain perseverance spells success the pair are now face to face she motionless and grave he all excitement with the tip of his leg he ventures to touch the plump wench he has gone too far daring youth that he is i panic stricken he takes a header hanging by his safetyline it is only for a moment however up he comes again he has learnt from cer tain symptoms that we are at last yielding to his blandishments with his legs and especially with his palpi or feelers he teases the buxom gossip who answers with curious skips and bounds grip ping a thread with her front tarsi or fingers she turns one after the other a number of back somersaults like those of an acrobat on the trapeze having done this she presents the underpart of her paunch to the dwarf and allows him to fumble at it a little with his feelers nothing more it is done the object of the expedition is attained the whippersnapper makes off at full speed as though he had the furies at his heels if he remained he would presumably be eaten these exercises on the tightrope are not re peated i kept watch in vain on the following evenings i never saw the fellow again when he is gone the bride descends from the cable spins her web and assumes the huntingattitude we must eat to have silk we must have silk to eat and especially to weave the expensive cocoon of the family there is therefore no rest not even after the excitement of being married the epirae are monuments of patience in their limesnare with her head down and her eight legs widespread the spider occupies the centre of the web the receivingpoint of the information sent along the spokes if anywhere behind or before a vibration occur the sign of a capture the epeira knows about it even without the aid of sight she hastens up at once until then not a movement one would think that the animal was hypnot by her watching at most on the appearance of any thing suspicious she begins shaking her nest this is her way of inspiring the intruder with awe if i myself wish to provoke the singular alarm i have but to tease the epeira with a bit of straw you cannot have a swing with out an impulse of some sort the terror stricken spider who wishes to strike terror in to others has hit upon something much better with nothing to push her she swings with her floor of ropes there is no effort no visible exertion not a single part of the animal moves and yet everything trembles violent shaking proceeds from apparent inertia rest causes commotion when calm is restored she resumes her attitude ceaselessly pondering the harsh prob lem of life shall i dine today or not certain privileged beings exempt from those anxieties have food in abundance and need not struggle to obtain it such is the gentle who swims blissfully in the broth of the putrefying adder odiers  and by a strange irony of fate these are generally the most gifted only manage to eat by dint of craft and patience you are of their company o my industrious epeirael so that you may dine you spend your treasures of patience nightly and often without result i sympathize with your woes for ly who am as concerned as you about my daily bread i also doggedly spread my net the net for catching ideas a more elusive and less substantial prize than the moth let us not lose heart the best part of life is not in the present still less in the past it lies in the future the domain of hope let us wait all day long the sky of a uniform grey has appeared to be brewing a storm in spite of the threatened downpour my neighbour who is a shrewd weatherprophet has come out of the cypresstree and begun to renew her web at the regular hour her forecast is correct it will be a fine night see the steamingpan of the clouds splits open and through the apertures the moon peeps in quisitively i too lantern in hand am peep ing a gust of wind from the north clears the realms on high the sky becomes magnificent perfect calm reigns below the moths begin their nightly rounds good i one is caught a mighty fine one the spider will dine today what happens next in an uncertain light does not lend itself to accurate observation it is better to turn to those garden spiders who never leave their web and who hunt mainly in the daytime the banded and the silky epeira both of whom live on the rose maries in the enclosure shall show us in broad daylight the innermost details of the tragedy i myself place on the limesnare a victim of my selecting its six legs are caught without more ado if the insect raises one of its tarsi and pulls towards itself the treacherous thread follows unwinds slightly and without letting go or breaking yields to the captives desperate jerks any limb released only tangles the others still more and is speedily recaptured by the sticky matter there is no means of escape except by smashing the trap with a sudden effort whereof even powerful insects are not always capable warned by the shaking of the net the epeira hastens up she turns round about the quarry she inspects it at a distance so as to ascertain the extent of the danger before attacking the strength of the snareling will decide the plan of campaign let us first suppose the usual case that of an average head of game a moth or fly of some sort facing her prisoner the spider contracts her abdomen slightly and touches the insect for a moment with the end of her spinnerets then with her front tarsi she sets her victim spinning the squirrel in the moving cylinder of his cage does not display a more graceful or nimbler dexterity a crossbar of the sticky spiral serves as an axis for the tiny machine which turns turns swiftly like a spit it is a treat to the eyes to see it revolve what is the object of this circular motion see the brief contact of the spinnerets has given a startingpoint for a thread which the spider must now draw from her silk warehouse and gradually roll around the captive so as to swathe him in a winding sheet which will overpower any effort made it is the exact process employed in our wire mills a motordriven spool revolves and by its action draws the wire through the narrow eyelet of a steel plate making it of the fineness required and with the same movement winds it round and round its collar even so with the epeiras work the spiders front tarsi are the motor the revolv ing spool is the captured insect the steel eyelet is the aperture of the spinnerets to bind the subject with precision and dispatch nothing could be better than this inexpensive and highlyeffective method less frequently a second process is em ployed with a quick movement the spider herself turns round about the motionless in sect crossing the web first at the top and then at the bottom and gradually placing the fasten ings of her line the great elasticity of the limethreads allows the epeira to fling herself time after time right into the web and to pass through it without damaging the net let us now suppose the case of some danger ous game a praying mantis for instance brandishing her lethal limbs each hooked and fitted with a double saw an angry hornet darting her awful sting a sturdy beetle invincible under his horny armour these are exceptional morsels hardly ever known to the epeirae will they be accepted if supplied by my stratagems they are but not without caution the game is seen to be perilous of approach and the spider turns her back upon it instead of facing it she trains her ropecannon upon it quickly the hindlegs draw from the spin nerets something much better than single cords the whole silkbattery works at one and the same time firing a regular volley of ribbons and sheets which a wide movement of the legs spreads fanwise and flings over the entangled prisoner guarding against sudden starts the epeira casts her armfuls of bands on the front and hindparts over the legs and over the wings here there and everjrwhere extravagantly the most fiery prey is promptly mastered under this avalanche in vain the mantis tries to open her sawtoothed armguards in vain the hornet makes play with her dagger in vain the beetle stiffens his legs and arches his back a fresh wave of threads swoops down and paralyzes every effort these lavished farflung ribbons threaten to exhaust the factory it would be much more economical to resort to the method of the spool but to turn the machine the spider would have to go up to it and work it with her leg this is too risky and hence the contin ous spray of silk at a safe distance when all is used up there is more to come still the epeira seems concerned at this excessive outlay when circumstances permit she gladly returns to the mechanism of the revolving spool i saw her practise this abrupt change of tactics on a big beetle with a smooth plump body which lent itself admirably to the rotary process after de priving the beast of all power of movementi she went up to it and turned her corpulent victim as she would have done with a medium s moth but with the praying mantis sticking out her long legs and her spreading wings rotation is no longer feasible then until the quarry is thoroughly subdued the spray of bandages goes on continuously even to the point of dry ing up the silkglands a capture of this kind is ruinous it is true that except when i in terfered i have never seen the spider tackle that formidable provender be it feeble or strong the game is now neatly trussed by one of the two methods the next move never varies the bound in sect is bitten without persistency and without any wound that shows the spider next retires and allows the bite to act which it soon does she then returns if the victim be small a clothesmoth for instance it is consumed on the spot at the place where it was captured but for a prize of some importance on which she hopes to feast for many an hour sometimes for many a day the spider needs a sequestered dining room where there is naught to fear from the stickiness of the network before going to it she first makes her prey turn in the converse direction to that of the original rotation her object is to free the nearest spokes which supplied pivots for the machinery they are essential factors which it behoves her to keep intact if need be by sacrificing a few crossbars it is done the twisted ends are put back into position the welltrussed game is at last removed from the web and fastened on behind with a thread the spider then marches in front and the load is trundled across the web and hoisted to the restingfloor which is both an inspectionpost and a dining hall when the spider is of a species that shuns the light and possesses a telegraphline she mounts to her daytime hidingplace along this line with the game bumping against her heels while she is refreshing herself let us enquire into the effects of the little bite pre viously administered to the silkswathed captive does the spider kill the patient with a view to avoiding unseasonable jerks pro tests so disagreeable at dinnertime several reasons make me doubt it in the first place the attack is so much veiled as to have all the appearance of a mere kiss besides it is made anywhere at the first spot that offers the expert slayers employ methods of the highest precision they give a stab in the neck or un der the throat they wound the cervical nerve centres the seat of energy the paralyzers those accomplished anatomists poison the motor nervecentres of which they know the number and position the epeira possesses none of this fearsome knowledge she in serts her fangs at random as the bee does her sting she does not select one spot rather than another she bites indifferently at what ever comes within reach this being so her poison would have to possess unparalleled virulence to produce a corpselike inertia no matter which the point attacked i can scarcely believe in instantaneous death resulting from the bite especially in the case of insects with their highlyresistant organisms besides is it really a corpse that the epeira wants she who feeds on blood much more cf insect life by j h fabrc translated by the author of mademoiselle mori chap vtranslators note than on flesh it were to her advantage to suck a live body wherein the flow of the liquids set in movement by the pulsation of the dorsal vessel that rudimentary heart of insects must act more freely than in a life less body with its stagnant fluids the game which the spider means to suck dry might very well not be dead this is easily ascertained i place some locusts of different species on the webs in my menagerie one on this another on that the spider comes rushing up binds the prey nibbles at it gently and withdraws waiting for the bite to take effect i then take the insect and carefully strip it of its silken shroud the locust is not dead far from it one would even think that he had suffered no harm i examine the released prisoner through the lens in vain i can see no trace of a wound can he be unscathed in spite of the sort of kiss which i saw given to him just now you would be ready to say so judging by the furious way in which he kicks in my fingers nevertheless when put on the ground he walks awkwardly he seems reluctant to hop perhaps it is a temporary trouble caused by his terrible excitement in the web it looks as though it would soon pass i lodge my locusts in cages with a lettuce leaf to console them for their trials but they will not be comforted a day elapses fol lowed by a second not one of them touches the leaf of salad their appetite has disap peared their movements become more uncertain as though hampered by irresistible torpor on the second day they are dead every one irrecoverably dead the epeira therefore does not inconti nently kill her prey with her delicate bite she poisons it so as to produce a gradual weak ness which gives the bloodsucker ample time to drain her victim without the least risk before the rigor mortis stops the flow of moisture the meal lasts quite twentyfour hours if the joint be large and to the very end the butchered insect retains a remnant of life a favourable condition for the exhausting of the juices once again we see a skilful method of slaughter very different from the tactics in use among the expert paralyzers or slayers here there is no display of anatomical science unacquainted with the patients structure th spider stabs at random the virulence of the poison does the rest there are however some very few cases in which the bite is speedily mortal my notes mention an angular epeira grappling with the largest dragonfly in my district shna grandis lin i myself had entangled in the web this head of big game which is not often captured by the epeirae the net shakes violently seems bound to break its moorings the spider rushes from her leafy villa runs boldly up to the giantess flings a single bundle of ropes at her and without further precau tions grips her with her legs tries to subdue her and then digs her fangs into the dragon flys back the bite is prolonged in sudi a way as to astonish me this is not the per functory kiss with which i am already familiar it is a deep determined wound after striking her blow the spider retires to a certain distance and waits for her poison to take effect i at once remove the dragonfly she is dead really and truly dead laid upon my table and left alone for twentyfour hours she makes not the slightest movement a prick of which my lens cannot sec the marks so sharppointed are the epeiras weapons was enough with a little insistence to kill the powerful animal proportionately the rattlesnake the horned viper the trigono cephilus and other illfamed serpents produce less paralyzing effects upon their victims and these epeirae so terrible to insects i am able to handle without any fear my skin does not suit them if i persuaded them to bite me what would happen to me hardly anything we have more cause to dread the sting of a nettle than the dagger which is fatal to dragonflies the same virus acts differently upon this organism and that is formidable here and quite mild there what kills the insect may easily be harmless to us let us not however generalize too far the narbonne lycosa that other enthusiastic insecthuntress would make us pay dearly if we attempted to take liberties with her it is not uninteresting to watch the epeira at dinner i light upon one the banded epeira at the moment about three oclock in the afternoon when she has captured a locust planted in the centre of the web on her restingfloor she attacks the venison at the joint of a haunch there is no movement not even of the mouthparts as far as i am able to discover the mouth lingers closeapplied at the point originally bitten there are no intermittent mouth fuls with the mandibles moving backwards and forwards it is a sort of continuous kiss i visit my epeira at intervals the mouth does not change its place i visit her for the last time at nine oclock in the evening matters stand exactly as they did after six hours consumption the mouth is still sucking at the lower end of the right haunch the fluid contents of the victim are transferred to the ogress belly i know not how next morning the spider is still at table i take away her dish naught remains of the locust but his skin hardly altered in shape but utterly drained and perforated in several places the method therefore was changed during the night to extract the nonfluent residue the viscera and muscles the stiff cuticle had to be tapped here there and else where after which the tattered husk placed bodily in the press of the mandibles would have been chewed rechewed and finally re duced to a pill which the sated spider throws up this would have been the end of the victim had i not taken it away before the time whether she wound or kill the epeira bites her captive somewhere or other no matter where this is an excellent method on her part because of the variety of the game that comes her way i see her accepting with equal readiness whatever chance may send her butterflies and dragonflies flies and wasps small dungbeetles and locusts if i offer her a mantis a bumblebee an anoxia  the equivalent of the common cockchafer  and other dishes probably unknown to her race she accepts all and any large and small thin skinned and homyskinned that which goes afoot and that which takes winged flight she is omnivorous she preys on everything down to her own kind should the occasion offer had she to operate according to individual structure she would need an anatomical dic tionary and instinct is essentially unfamiliar with generalities its knowledge is always con fined to limited points the cerceres know their weevils and their buprestlsbeetles abso lutely the sphex their grasshoppers their crickets and their locusts the scoliae their the scolia is a diggerwasp like the cerceris and cetonia and oryctesgrubs even so die other paralyzers each has her own victim and knows nothing of any of the others the same exclusive tastes prevail among the slayers let us remember in this connection philanthus apivorus and especially the thomisus the comely spider who cuts bees throats they understand the fatal blow either in the neck or under the chin a thing which the epeira does not understand but just because of this talent they are specialists their province is the domestic bee animals are a little like ourselves they excel in an art only on condition of special izing in it the epeira who being omniv orous is obliged to generalize abandons scientific methods and makes up for this by distilling a poison capable of producing torpor and even death no matter what the point attacked the sphex and feeds her larvae on the grubs of the cetonia or rosechafer and the oryctes or rhinoceros beetle cf the life and love of the insect by j henri fabre translated by alexander teixeira de mattos chap xi  translators note cf social life in the insect world by j h fabre translated by bernard miall chap xiii in which the name is given by a printers error as phuanthns avi porus translators note recognizing the large variety of game we wonder how the epeira manages not to hesitate amid those many diverse forms how for instance she passes from the locust to the butterfly so different in appearance to attribute to her as a guide an extensive zoo logical knowledge were wildly in excess of what we may reasonably expect of her poor intelligence the thing moves therefore it is worth catching this formula seems to sum up the spiders wisdom a dog has found a bone he lies in the shade holding it between his paws and studies it fondly it is his sacred property his chattel an epeira has woven her web here again is property and owning a better title than the other favoured by chance and assisted by his scent the dog has merely had a find he has neither worked nor paid for it the spider is more than a casual owner she has created what is hers its substance issued from her body its structure from her brain if ever property was sacrosanct hers is far higher stands the work of the weaver of ideas who tissues a book that other spiders web and out of his thought makes something that shall instruct or thrill us to protect our bone we have the police in vented for the express purpose to protect the book we have none but farcical means place a ifew bricks one atop the other join them with mortar and the law will defend your wall build up in writing an edifice of your thoughts and it will be open to any one without serious impediment to abstract stones from it even to take the whole if it suit him a rabbithutch is property the work of the mind is not if the animal has eccentric views as regards the possessions of others we have ours as well might always has the best of the argu ment said la fontaine to the great scandal of the peacelovers the exigencies of verse rhyme and rhjrthm carried the worthy fabulist further than he intended he meant to say that in a fight between mastiffs and in other brute conflicts the stronger is left master of the bone he well knew that as things go success is no certificate of excellence others came the notorious evildoers of humanity who made a law of the savage maxim that might is right we are the larvae with the changing skins the ugly caterpillars of a society that is slowly very slowly wending its way to the triumph of right over might when will this sublime metamorphosis be accomplished to free ourselves from those wildbeast brutalitiesi must we wait for the oceanplains of the southern hemisphere to flow to our side chang ing the face of continents and renewing the glacial period of the reindeer and the mam moth perhaps so slow is moral progress true we have the bicycle the motorcar the dirigible airship and other marvellous means of breaking our bones but our mo rality is not one rung the higher for it all one would even say that the farther we proceed in our conquest of matter the more our morality recedes the most advanced of our inventions consists in bringing men down with grapeshot and explosives with the swift ness of the reaper mowing the corn would we see this might triumphant in all its beauty let us spend a few weeks in the epeiras company she is the owner of a web her work her most lawful property the question at once presents itself does the spider possibly recognize her fabric by certain trademarks and distinguish it from that of her fellows i bring about a change of webs between two neighbouring banded epeirae no sooner is either placed upon the strange net than she makes for the central floor settles herself head downwards and does not stir from it satisfied with her neighbours web as with her own neither by day nor by night does she try to shift her quarters and restore matters to their pristine state both spiders think themselves in their own domain the two pieces of work are so much alike that i almost expected this i then decide to affect an exchange of webs between two different species i move the banded epeira to the net of the silky epeira and vice versa the two webs are now dis similar the silky epciras has a limy spiral consisting of closer and more numerous circles what will the spiders do when thus put to the test of the unknown one would think that when one of them found meshes too wide for her under her feet the other meshes too narrow they would be frightened by this sud den change and decamp in terror not at all without a sign of perturbation they remain plant themselves in the centre and await the coming of the game as though nothing extraordinary had happened they do more than this days pass and as long as the un familiar web is not wrecked to the extent of being unserviceable they make no attempt to weave another in their own style the spider therefore is incapable of recognizing her web she takes anothers work for hers even when it is produced by a stranger to her race we now come to the tragic side of this con fusion wishing to have subjects for study within my daily reach and to save myself the trouble of casual excursions i collect different epeirae whom i find in the course of my walks and establish them on the shrubs in my enclosure in this way a rosemaryhedge sheltered from the wind and facing the sun is turned into a wellstocked menagerie i take the spiders from the paper bags wherein i had put them separately to carry them and place them on the leaves with no further precaution it is for them to make themselves at home as a rule they do not budge all day from the place where i put them they wait for night fall before seeking a suitable site whereon to weave a net some among them show less patience a little while ago they possessed a web between the reeds of a brook or in the holmoak copses and now they have none they go off in search to recover their property or seize on some one elses it is all the same to them i come upon a banded epeira newly im ported making for the web of a silky epeira who has been my guest for some days since the owner is at her post in the centre of the net she awaits the stranger with seeming impassiveness then suddenly they grip each other and a desperate fight begins the silky epeira is worsted the other swathes her in bonds drags her to the nonlimy central floor and in the calmest fashion eats her the dead spider is munched for twentyfour hours and drained to the last drop when the corpse a wretched crumpled ball is at last flung aside the web so foully conquered be comes the property of the stranger who uses it if it have not suffered too much in the contest there is here a shadow of an excuse the two spiders were of different species and the struggle for life often leads to these exter minations among such as are not akin what would happen if the two belonged to the same species it is easily seen i cannot rely upon spontaneous invasions which may be rare under normal conditions and i myself place a banded epeira on her kinswomans web a furious attack is made forthwith victory after hanging for a moment in the balance is once again decided in the strangers fa vour the vanquished party this time a sister is eaten without the slightest scruple her web becomes the property of the victor there it is in all its horror the right of might to eat ones like and take away their goods man did the same in days of old he stripped and ate his fellows we continue to rob one another both as nations and as indi viduals but we no longer eat one another the custom has grown obsolete since we dis covered an acceptable substitute in the mutton chop let us not however blacken the spider beyond her deserts she does not live by war ring on her kith and kin she does not of her own accord attempt the conquest of anothers property it needs extraordinary circum stances to rouse her to these villainies i take her from her web and place her on anothers from that moment she knows no distinction between meum and tuum the thing which the leg touches at once becomes real estate and the intruder if she be the stronger ends by eating the occupier a radical means of cutting short disputes apart from disturbances similiar to those which i provoke disturbances that are possible in the everlasting conflict of events the spider jealous of her own web seems to respect the webs of others she never in dulges in brigandage against her fellows except when dispossessed of her net especially in the daytime for weaving is never done by day this work is reserved for the night when however she is deprived of her liveli hood and feels herself the stronger then she attacks her neighbour rips her open feeds on her and takes possession of her goods let us make allowances and proceed we will now examine spiders of more alien habits the banded and the silky epeira differ greatly in form and colouring the first has a plump oliveshaped belly richly belted with white brightyellow and black the seconds abdomen is flat of a silky white and pinked into festoons judging only by dress and figure we should not think of closely connecting the two spiders but high above shapes tower tendencies those main characteristics which our methods of classification so particular about minute details of form ought to consult more widely than they do the two dissimilar spiders have exactly similar ways of living both of them prefer to hunt by day and never leave their webs both sign their work with a zigzag flourish their nets are almost identical so much so that the banded epeira uses the silky epeiras web after eating its owner the silky epeira on her side when she is the stronger dispossesses her belted cousin and devours her each is at home on the others web when the argument of might triumphant has ended the discussion let us next take the case of the cross spider a hairy beast of varying shades of reddishbrown she has three large white spots upon her back forming a triplebarred cross she hunts mostly at night shuns the sun and lives by day on the adjacent shrubs in a shady retreat which communicates with the limesnare by means of a telegraphwire her web is very similar in structure and ap pearance to those of the two others what will happen if i procure her the visit of a banded epeira the lady of the triple cross is invaded by day in the full light of the sun thanks to my mischievous intermediary the web is de serted the proprietress is in her leafy hut the telegraphwire performs its office the cross spider hastens down strides all round her property beholds the danger and hurriedly returns to her hidingplace with out taking any measures against the in truder the latter on her side does not seem to be enjoying herself were she placed on the web of one of her sisters or even on that of the silky epeira she would have posted herself in the centre as soon as the struggle had ended in the others death this time there is no struggle for the web is deserted nothing prevents her from taking her position in the centre the chief strategic point and yet she does not move from the place where i put her i tickle her gently with the tip of a long straw when at home if teased in this way the banded epeira  like the others for that matter  violently shakes the web to intim idate the aggressor this time nothing happens despite my repeated enticements the spider doe not stir a limb it is as though she were numbed with terror and she has reason to be the other is watching her from her lofty loophole this is probably not the only cause of her fright when my straw does induce her to take a few steps i see her lift her legs with some difficulty she tugs a bit drags her tarsi till she almost breaks the supporting threads it is not the progress of an agile ropewalker it is the hesitating gait of entangled feet perhaps the limethreads are stickier than in her own web the glue is of a different quality and her sandals are not greased to the extent which the new degree of adhesiveness would demand anyhow things remain as they are for long hours on end the banded epeira motionless on the edge of the web the other lurking in her hut both apparently most uneasy at sunset the lover of darkness pludks up courage she descends from her green tent and without troubling about the stranger goes straight to the centre of the web where the telegraphwire brings her panicstricken at this apparition the banded epeira releases herself with a jerk and disappears in the rosemarythicket the experiment though repeatedly re newed with different subjects gave me no other results distrustful of a web dissimilar to her own if not in structure at least in stick iness the bold banded epeira shows the white feather and refuses to attack the cross spider the latter on her side either does not budge from her day shelter in the foliage or else rushes back to it after taking a hurried glance at the stranger she here awaits the coming of the night under favour of the darkness which gives her fresh courage and activity she reappears upon the scene and puts the intruder to flight by her mere presence aided if need be by a cuff or two injured right is die victor morality is satisfied but let us not con gratulate the spider therefore if the invader respects the invaded it is because very serious reasons impel her first she would have to contend with an adversary ensconced in a stronghold whose ambushes are unknown to the assailant secondly the web if con quered would be inconvenient to use because of the limethreads possessing a different de gree of stickiness from those which she knows so well to risk ones skin for a thing of doubtful value were twice foolish the spider knows this and forbears but let the banded epeira deprived of her web come upon that of one of her kind or of the silky epeira who works her gummy twine in the same manner then discretion is thrown to the winds the owner is fiercely ripped open and possession taken of the property might is right says the beast or rather it knows no right the animal world is a rout of appetites acknowledging no other rein than impotence mankind alone capable of emerging from the slough of the instincts is bringing equity into being is creating it slowly as its conception grows clearer out of the sacred rushlight so flickering as yet but gain ing strength from age to age man will make a flaming torch that will put an end among us to the principles of the brutes and one day utterly change the face of society hile the epeirae with their gor v geous nettapestries are incomparable weavers many other spiders excel in ingenious devices for filling their stomachs and leaving a lineage behind them the tvyo primary laws of living things some of them are celebrities of longstanding renown who are mentioned in all the books certain mygales inhabit a burrow like the narbonne lycosa but of a perfection un known to the brutal spider of the wastelands the lycosa surrounds the mouth of her shaft with a simple parapet a mere collection of tiny pebbles sticks and silk the others fix a movable door to theirs a round shutter with a hinge a groove and a set of bolts when the mygale comes home the lid drops into the groove and fits so exactly that there is no possibility of distinguishing the join if the or bird spiders known also as the american taran tula  translators note aggressor persist and seek to raise the trap door the recluse pushes the bolt that is to say plants her claws into certain holes on the op posite side to the hinge props herself against the wall and holds the door firmly another the argyroneta or water spider builds herself an elegant silken divingbell in which she stores air thus supplied with the wherewithal to breathe she awaits the com ing of the game and keeps herself cool mean while at times of scorching heat hers must be a regular sybaritic abode such as eccentric man has sometimes ventured to build under water with mighty blocks of stone and marble the submarine palaces of tiberius are no more than an odious memory the water spiders dainty cupola still flourishes if i possessed documents derived from per sonal observation i should like to speak of these ingenious workers i would gladly add a few unpublished facts to their hfehistory but i must abandon the idea the water spider is not found in my district the mygale the expert in hinged doors is found there but very seldom i saw one once on the edge of a path skirting a copse oppor tunity as we know is fleeting the observer more than any other is obliged to take it by the forelock preoccupied as i was with other researches i but gave a glance at the mag nificent subject which good fortune offered the opportunity fled and has never returned let us make up for it with trivial things of frequent encounter a condition favourable to consecutive study what is common is not necessarily unimportant give it our sus tained attention and we shall discover in it merits which our former ignorance prevented us from seeing when patiently entreated the least of creatures adds its note to the har monies of life in the fields around traversed in these days with a tired step but still vigilantly explored i find nothing so often as the labyrinth spider agelena labyrinthica clerck not a hedge but shelters a few at its foot amid the grass in quiet sunny nooks in the open country and especially in hilly places laid bare by the woodmans axe the favourite sites are tufts of bracken rock rose lavender everlasting and rosemary cropped close by the teeth of the flocks this is where i resort as the isolation and kind liness of the supports lend themselves to pro ceedings which might not be tolerated by the unfriendly hedge several times a week in july i go to study my spiders on the spot at an early hour before the sun beats fiercely on ones neck the children accompany me each provided with an orange wherewith to slake the thirst that will not be slow in coming they lend me their good eyes and supple limbs the expedition promises to be fruitful we soon discover high silk buildings be trayed at a distance by the glittering threads which the dawn has converted into dewy rosaries the children are wonderstruck at those glorious chandeliers so much so that they forget their oranges for a moment nor am i on my part indifferent a splendid spectacle indeed is that of our spiders laby rinth heavy with the tears of the night and lit up by the first rays of the sun accompanied as it is by the thrushes symphony this alone is worth getting up for half an hours heat and the magic jewels disappear with the dew now is the moment to inspect the webs here is one spreading its sheet over a large cluster of rockroses it is the size of a handkerchief a profusion of guyropes attached to any chance projection moor it to the brushwood there is not a twig but supplies a contactpoint entwined on every side surrounded and surmounted the bush disappears from view veiled in white muslin the web is flat at the edges as far as the unevenness of the support permits and gradu ally hollows into a crater not unlike the bell of a huntinghorn the central portion is a coneshaped gulf a funnel whose neck narrowing by degrees dives perpendicularly into the leafy thicket to a depth of eight or nine inches at the entrance to the tube in the gloom of that murderous alley sits the spider who looks at us and betrays no great excitement at our presence she is grey modestly adorned on the thorax with two black ribbons and on the abdomen with two stripes in which white specks alternate with brown at the tip of the belly two small mobile appendages form a sort of tail a rather curious feature in a spider the cratershaped web is not of the same structure throughout at the borders it is a gossamer weft of sparse threads nearer die centre the texture becomes first fine muslin and then satin lower still on the narrower part of the opening it is a network of roughly lozenged meshes lastly the neck of the funnel the usual restingplace is formed of solid silk the spider never ceases working at her carpet which represents her investigation platform every night she goes to it walks over it inspecting her snares extending her domain and increasing it with new threads the work is done with the silk constantly hanging from the spinnerets and constantly extracted as the animal moves about the neck of the funnel being more often walked upon than the rest of the dwelling is therefore provided with a thicker upholstery beyond it are the slopes of the crater which are also muchfrequented regions spokes of some regularity fix the diameter of the mouth a swaying walk and the guiding aid of the caudal appendages have laid lozengy meshes across these spokes this part has been strengthened by the nightly rounds of inspec tion lastly come the lessvisited expanses which consequently have a thinner carpet at the bottom of the passage dipping into the brushwood we might expect to find a secret cabin a wadded cell where the spider would take refuge in her hours of leisure the reality is something entirely different the long funnelneck gapes at its lower end where a private door stands always ajar allowing the animal when hardpushed to escape through the grass and gain the open it is well to know this arrangement of the home if you wish to capture the spider with out hurting her when attacked from the front the fugitive runs down and slips through the posterngate at the bottom to look for her by rummaging in the brushwood often leads to nothing so swift is her flight besides a blind search entails a great risk of maiming her let us eschew violence which is but seldom successful and resort to craft we catch sight of the spider at the entrance to her tube if practicable squeeze the bottom of the tuft containing the neck of the funnel with both hands that is enough the animal is caught feeling its retreat cut off it readily darts into the paper screw held out to it if necessary it can be stimulated with a bit of straw in this way i fill my cages with subjects that have not been de moral by contusions the surface of the crater is not exactly a snare it is just possible for the casual pedes trian to catch his legs in the silky carpets but giddypates who come here for a walk must be very rare what is wanted is a trap capable of securing the game that hops or flies the epeira has her treacherous limed net the spider of the bushes has her no less treach erous labyrinth look above the web what a forest of ropes it might be the rigging of a ship dis abled by a storm they run from every twig of the supporting shrubs they are fastened to the tip of every branch there are long ropes and short ropes upright and slanting straight and bent taut and slack all crisscross and atange to the height of three feet or so in inextricable disorder the whole forms a chaos of netting a labyrinth which none can pass through unless he be endowed with wings of exceptional power we have here nothing similar to the lime threads used by the garden spiders the threads are not sticky they act only by their confused multitude would you care to see the trap at work throw a small locust into the rigging unable to obtain a steady foot hold on that shaky support he flounders about and the more he struggles the more he entangles his shackles the spider spying on the threshold of her abyss lets him have his way she does not run up the shrouds of the mastwork to seize the desperate prisoner she waits until his bonds of threads twisted back wards and forwards make him fall on the web he falls the other comes and flings herself upon her prostrate prey the attack is not without danger the locust is demoral rather than tied up it is merely bits of broken thread that he is trailing from his legs the bold assailant does not mind without troub ling like the epeirae to bury her capture un der a paralyzing shroud she feels it to make sure of its quality and then regardless of kicks inserts her fangs the bite is usually given at the lower end of a haunch not that this place is more vulner able than any other thinskinned part but probably because it has a better flavour the different webs which i inspect to study the food in the larder show me among other joints various flies and small butterflies and carcasses of almostuntouched locusts all deprived of their hindlegs or at least of one locusts legs often dangle emptied of their succulent contents on the edges of the web from the meathooks of the butchers shop in my urchindays days free from prejudices in regard to what one ate i like many others was able to appreciate that dainty it is the equivalent on a very small scale of the larger legs of the crayfish the riggingbuilder therefore to whom we have just thrown a locust attacks the prey at the lower end of a thigh the bite is a lingering one once the spider has planted her fangs she does not let go she drinks she sips she sucks when this first point is drained she passes on to others to the second haunch in particular until the prey becomes an empty hulk without losing its outline we have seen that garden spiders feed in a similar way bleeding their venison and drink ing it instead of eating it at last however in the comfortable postprandial hours they take up the drained morsel chew it rechew it and reduce it to a shapeless ball it is a dessert for the teeth to toy with the laby rinth spider knows nothing of the diversions of the table she flings the drained remnants out of her web without chewing them although it lasts long the meal is eaten in perfect safety from the first bite the locust becomes a lifeless thing the spiders poison has settled him the labyrinth is greatly inferior as a work of art to that advanced geometrical con trivance the garden spiders net and in spite of its ingenuity it does not give a favourable notion of its constructor it is hardly more than a shapeless scaffolding run up anyhow and yet like the others the builder of this slovenly edifice must have her own principles of beauty and accuracy as it is the prettily latticed mouth of the crater makes us suspect this the nest the mothers usual masterpiece will prove it to the full when layingtime is at hand the spider changes her residence she abandons her web in excellent condition she does not return to it whoso will can take possession of the house the hour has come to found the familyestablishment but where the spider knows right well i am in the dark mornings are spent in fruitless searches in vain i ransack the bushes that carry the webs i never find aught that realizes my hopes i learn the secret at last i chance upon a web which though deserted is not yet dilapi dated proving that it has been but lately quitted instead of hunting in the brushwood whereon it rests let us inspect the neighbour hood to a distance of a few paces if these contain a low thick cluster the nest is there hidden from the eye it carries an authentic certificate of its origin for the mother invari ably occupies it by this method of investigation far from the labyrinthtrap i become the owner of as many nests as are needed to satisfy my curi osity they do not by a long way come up to my idea of the maternal talent they are clumsy bundles of dead leaves roughly drawn together with silk threads under this rude covering is a pouch of fine texture containing the eggcasket all in very bad condition be cause of the inevitable tears incurred in its extrication from the brushwood no i shall not be able to judge of the artists capacity by these rags and tatters the insect in its buildings has its own architectural rules rules as unchangeable as anatomical peculiarities each group builds according to the same set of principles con forming to the laws of a very elementary system of aesthetics but often circumstances beyond the architects control  the space at her disposal the unevenness of the site the nature of the material and other accidental causes  interfere with the workers plans and disturb the structure then virtual regularity is translated into actual chaos order degen erates into disorder we might discover an interesting subject of research in the type adopted by each species when the work is accomplished without hin drances the banded epeira weaves the wal let of her eggs in the open on a slim branch that does not get in her way and her work is a superbly artistic jar the silky epeira also has all the elbowroom she needs and her paraboloid is not without elegance can the labyrinth spider that other spinstress of ac complished merit be ignorant of the precepts of beauty when the time comes for her to weave a tent for her offspring as yet what i have seen of her work is but an unsightly bundle is that all she can do i look for better things if circumstances favour her toiling in the midst of a dense thicket among a tangle of dead leaves and twigs she may well produce a very inaccurate piece of work but compel her to labour when free from all impediment she will then  i am convinced of it beforehand  apply her talents without constraint and show herself an adept in the building of graceful nests as layingtime approaches towards the middle of august i instal halfadozen laby rinth spiders in large wiregauze cages each standing in an earthen pan filled with sand a sprig of thyme planted in the centre will furnish supports for the structure together with the trelliswork of the top and sides there is no other furniture no dead leaves which would spoil the shape of the nest if the mother were minded to employ them as a covering by way of provision locusts every day they are readily accepted provided they be tender and not too large the experiment works perfectly august is hardly over before i am in possession of six nests magnificent in shape and of a dazzling whiteness the latitude of the workshop has enabled the spinstress to follow the inspiration of her instinct without serious obstacles and the result is a masterpiece of symmetry and elegance if we allow for a few angularities demanded by the suspensionpoints it is an oval of exquisite white muslin a diaphanous abode wherein the mother must make a long stay to watch over the brood t the size is nearly that of a hens egg the i cabin is open at either end the front entrance broadens into a gallery the back entrance tapers into a funnelneck i fail to see the object of this neck as for the open ing in front which is wider this is beyond a doubt a victuallingdoor i see the spider at intervals standing here on the lookout for the locust whom she consumes outside taking spotless sanctuary with i lj fjt corpses r the structure of the nest is not without a certain similarity to that of the home oc ti cupied during the huntingseason the passage at the back represents the funnelneck x li o x q that ran almost down to the ground and afforded an outlet for flight in case of grave a a danger the one in front expanding into a mouth kept wide open by cords stretched back x wards and forward recalls the yawning gulf y into which the victims used to fall every en part of the old dwelling is repeated even the labyrinth though this it is true is on a much snjaller scale in front of the bellshaped mouth is a tangle of threads wherein the passersby are caught each species in this way possesses a primary architectural model which is followed as a whole in spite of altered conditions the animal knows its trade thoroughly but it does not know and will never know aught else being incapable of originality now this palace of silk when all is said is nothing more than a guardhouse behind the soft milky opalescence of the wall glimmers the eggtabernacle with its form vaguely sug gesting the star of some order of knighthood it is a large pocket of a splendid deadwhite isolated on every side by radiating pillars which keep it motionless in the centre of the tapestry these pillars are about ten in num ber and are slender in the middle expanding at one end into a conical capital and at the other into a base of the same shape they face one another and mark the position of the vaulted corridors which allow free movement in every direction around the central chamber the mother walks gravely to and fro under the arches of her cloisters she stops first here then there she makes a lengthy auscultation of the eggwallet she listens to all that hap pens inside the satin wrapper to disturb her would be barbarous for a closer examination let us use the dilapidated nests which we brought from the fields apart from its pillars the eggpocket is an inverted conoid reminding us of the work of the silky epeira its material is rather stout my pincers pulling at it do not tear it without difficulty inside the bag there is nothing but an extremely fine white wad ding and lastly the eggs numbering about a hundred and comparatively large for they measure a millimetre and a half they arc very pale amberyellow beads which do not stick together and which roll freely as soon as i remove the swan vdown shroud let us put everything into a glasstube to study the hatching we will now retrace our steps a little when layingtime comes the mother forsakes her dwelling her crater into which her falling victims dropped her labyrinth in which the flight of the midges was cut short she leaves inchtranslatofs note intact the apparatus that enabled her to live at her ease thoughtful of her natural duties she goes to found another establishment at a distance why at a distance she has still a few long months to live and she needs norishment were it not better then to lodge the eggs in the immediate neighbourhood of the present home and to continue her hunting with the excellent snare at her disposal the watching of the nest and the easy acquisition of provender would go hand in hand the spider is of another opinion and i suspect the reason the sheetnet and the labyrinth that sur mounts it are objects visible from afar owing to their whiteness and the height whereat they are placed their scintillation in the sun in frequented paths attracts mosquitoes and butterflies like the lamps in our rooms and the fowlers lookingglass whoso comes to look at the bright thing too closely dies the victim of his curiosity there is nothing better for playing upon the folly of the passerby but also nothing more dangerous to the safety of the family harpies will not fail to come running at this signal showing up against the green guided by the position of the web they will assuredly find the precious purse and a strange grub feasting on a hundred newlaid eggs will ruin the establishment i do not know these enemies not having sufficient materials at my disposal for a register of the parasites but from indications gathered else where i suspect them the banded epeira trusting to the strength of her stuff fixes her nest in the sight of all hangs it on the brushwood taking no pre cautions whatever to hide it and a bad business it proves for her her jar provides me with an ichneumon possessed of the inoc ulating lardingpin a cryptus who as a grub had fed on spiders eggs nothing but empty shells was left inside the central keg the germs were completely exterminated there are other ichneumonflies moreover addicted to robbing spiders nests a basket of fresh eggs is their oflfsprings regular food like any other the labyrinth spider thc ichneumonflies are very small insects which carry long ovipositors wherewith they lay their eggs in the eggs of other insects and also more especially in caterpillars their parasitic larvae live and develop at the expense of the egg or grub attacked which degen erates in consequence  translators note dreads the scoundrelly advent of the pidc wallet she provides for it and to shield her self against it as far as possible chooses a hidingplace outside her dwelling far re moved from the telltale web when she feels her ovaries ripen she shifts her quarters she goes off at night to explore the neighbour hood and seek a less dangerous refuge the points selected are by preference the low brambles dragging along the ground keeping their dense verdure during the winter and crammed with dead leaves from the oaks hard by rosemarytufts which gain in thickness what they lose in height on the unfostering rock suit her particularly this is where i usually find her nest not without long seeking so well is it hidden so far there is no departure from current usage as the world is full of creatures on the prowl for tender mouthfuls every mother has her apprehensions she also has her nat ural wisdom which advises her to establish her family in secret places very few neglect this precaution each in her own manner con ceals the eggs she lays in the case of the labyrinth spider the protection of the brood is complicated by another condition in the vast majority of instances the eggs once lodged in a favour able spot are abandoned to themselves left to the chances of good or ill fortune the spider of the brushwood on the contrary en dowed with greater maternal devotion has like the crab spider to mount guard over hers until they hatch with a few threads and some small leaves joined together the crab spider builds above her lofty nest a rudimentary watch tower where she stays permanently greatly emaciated flattened into a sort of wrinkled shell through the emptying of her ovaries and the total absence of food and this mere shred hardly more than a skin that persists in living without eating stoutly defends her egg sack shows fight at the approach of any tramp she does not make up her mind to die until the little ones are gone the labyrinth spider is better treated after laying her eggs so far from becoming thin she preserves an excellent appearance and a round belly moreover she does not lose her appetite and is always prepared to bleed a locust she therefore requires a dwelling with a huntingbox close to the eggs watched over we know this dwelling built in strict accordance with artistic cannons un der the shelter of my cages remember the magnificent oval guard room running into a vestibule at either end the eggchamber slung in the centre and isolated on every side by half a score of pillars the fronthall expanding into a wide mouth and surmounted by a network of taut threads forming a trap the semitranspar ency of the walls allows us to see the spider engaged in her household affairs her cloister of vaulted passages enables her to pro ceed to any point of the starshaped pouch containing the eggs indefatigable in her rounds she stops here and there she fondly feels the satin listens to the secrets of the wal let if i shake the net at any point with a straw she quickly runs up to enquire what is happening will this vigilance frighten oif the ichneumon and other lovers of omelettes perhaps so but though this danger be averted others will come when the mother is no longer there her attentive watch does not make her overlook her meals one of the locusts whereof i renew the supply at intervals in the cages is caught iqi the cords of the great entrancehall the spider arrives hurriedly snatches the giddypate and disjoints his shanks which she empties of their contents the best part of the insect the remainder of the carcass is afterwards drained more or less ac cording to her appetite at the time the meal is taken outside the guardroom on the threshold never indoors these are not capricious mouthfuls serv ing to beguile the boredom of the watch for a brief while they are substantial repasts which require several sittings such an ap petite astonishes me after i have seen the crab spider that no less ardent watcher refuse the bees whom i give her and allow herself to die of inanition can this other mother have so great a need as that to eat yes certainly she has and for an imperative reason at the beginning of her work she spent a large amount of silk perhaps all that her reserves contained for the double dwelling  for herself and for her offspring  is a huge edifice exceedingly costly in materials and yet for nearly another month i see her adding layer upon layer both to the wall of the large cabin and to that of the central chamber so much so that the texture which at first was translucent gauze becomes opaque satin the walls never seem thick enough the spider is always working at them to satisfy this lavish expenditure she must inces santly by means of feeding fill her silkglands as and when she empties them by spinning food is the means whereby she keeps the inex haustible factory going a month passes and about the middle of september the little ones hatch but without leaving their tabernacle where they are to spend the winter packed in soft wadding the mother continues to watch and spin lessening her activity from day to day she recruits herself with a locust at longer inter vals she sometimes scorns those whom i my self entangle in her trap this increasing abstemiousness a sign of decrepitude slackens and at last stops the work of the spinnerets for four or five weeks longer the mother never ceases her leisurely inspectionrounds happy at hearing the newbom spiders swarm ing in the wallet at length when october ends she clutches her offsprings nursery and dies withered she has done all that maternal devotion can do the special providence of tiny animals will do the rest when spring comes the youngsters will emerge from their snug habitation disperse all over the neigh hood by the expedient of the floating thread and weave their first attempts at a labyrinth on the tufts of thyme accurate in structure and neat in silkwork though they be the nests of the caged captives do not tell us everything we must go back to what happens in the fields with their com plicated conditions towards the end of december i again set out in search aided by all my youthful collaborators we inspect the stunted rosemaries along the edge of a path sheltered by a rocky wooded slope we lift the branches that spread over the ground our zeal is rewarded with success in a couple of hours i am the owner of some nests pitiful pieces of work are they injured beyond recognition by the assaults of the weather it needs the eyes of faith to see in these ruins the equivalent of the edifices built inside my cages fastened to the creeping branch the unsightly bundle lies on the sand heaped up by the rains oakleaves roughly joined by a few threads wrap it all round one of these leaves larger than the others roofs it in and serves as a scaffolding for the whole of the ceiling if we did not see the silky remnants of the two vestibules project ing and feel a certain resistance when separat ing the parts of the bundle we might take the thing for a casual accumulation the work of the rain and the wind let us examine our find and look more closely into its shapelessness here is the large room the maternal cabin which rips as the coating of leaves is removed here are the circular galleries of the guardroom here are the central chamber and its pillars all in a fabric of immaculate white the dirt from the damp ground has not penetrated to this dwelling protected by its wrapper of dead leaves now open the habitation of the offspring what is this to my utter astonishment the contents of the chamber are a kernel of earthy matters as though the muddy rainwater had been allowed to soak through put aside that idea says the satin wall which itself is per fectly clean inside it is most certainly the mothers doing a deliberate piece of work executed with minute care the grains of sand are stuck together with a cement of silk and the whole resists the pressure of the fingers if we continue to unshell the kernel we find below this mineral layer a last silken tunic that forms a globe around the brood no sooner do we tear this final covering than the frightened little ones run away and scatter with an agility that is singular at this cold and torpid season to sum up when working in the natural state the labyrinth spider builds around the eggs between two sheets of satin a wall com posed of a great deal of sand and a little silk to stop the ichneumons probe and the teeth of the other ravages the best thing that oc curred to her was this hoarding which combines the hardness of flint with the softness of muslin this means of defence seems to be pretty frequent among spiders our own big house spider tegenaria domestica encloses her eggs in a globule strengthened with a rind of silk and of crumbly wreckage from the mortar of the walls other species living in the open under stones work in the same way they wrap their eggs in a mineral shell held together with silk the same fears have in spired the same protective methods then how comes it that of the five mothers reared in my cages not one has had recourse to the clay rampart after all sand abounded the pans in which the wiregauze covers stood were full of it on the other hand under normal conditions i have often come across nests without any mineral casing these incomplete nests were placed at some height from the ground in the thick of the brushwood the others on the contrary those supplied with a coating of sand lay on the ground the method of the work explains these differences the concrete of our buildings is obtained by the simultaneous manipulation of gravel and mortar in the same way the spider mixes the cement of the silk with the grains of sand the spinnerets never cease working while the legs fling under the ad hesive spray the solid materials collected in the immediate neighbourhood the opera tion would be impossible if after cementing each grain of sand it were necessary to stop the work of the spinnerets and go to a distance to fetch further stony elements those materials have to be right under her legs otherwise the spider does without and con tinues her work just the same in my cages the sand is too far off to obtain it the spider would have to leave the top of the dome where the nest is being built on its trelliswork support she would have to come down some nine inches the worker refuses to take this trouble which if repeated in the case of each grain would make the action of the spinnerets too irksome she also refuses to do so when for reasons which i have not fathomed the site chosen is some way up in the tuft of rosemary but when the nest touches the ground the clay rampart is never missing are we to see in this fact proof of an in stinct capable of modification either making for decadence and gradually neglecting what was the ancestors safeguard or making for progress and advancing hesitatingly towards perfection in the masons art no inference is permissible in either direction the laby rinth spider has simply taught us that instinct possesses resources which are employed or left latent according to the conditions of the mo ment place sand under her legs and the spinstress will knead concrete refuse her that sand or put it out of her reach and the spider will remain a simple silkworker al ways ready however to turn mason under favourable conditions the aggregate of things that come within the observers scope proves that it were mad to expect from her any further innovations such as would utterly change her methods of manufacture and cause her for instance to abandon her cabin with its two entrancehalls and its starlike taber nacle in favour of the banded epeiras pearshaped gourd che is named durands clotho clotho durandi latr in memory of him who first called attention to this particular spider to enter on eternity under the safe conduct of a diminutive animal which saves us from speedy oblivion under the mallows and rockets is no contemptible advantage most men disappear without leaving an echo to repeat their name they lie buried in forgct fulness the worst of graves others among the naturalists benefit by the designation given to this or that object in lifes treasurehouse it is the skiff wherein they keep afloat for a brief while a patch of lichen on the bark of an old tree a blade of grass a puny beastie any one of these hands down a mans name to posterity as effectively as a new comet for all its abuses this manner of honouring the departed is emi nently respectable if we would carve an epitaph of some duration what could we find better than a beetles wingcase a snaifs shell or a spiders web granite is worth none of them entrusted to the hard stone an inscrip tion becomes obliterated entrusted to a butterflys wing it is indestructible du rand therefore by all means but why drag in clotho is it the whim of a nomenclator at a loss for words to denote the everswelling tide of beasts that require cataloguing not entirely a mythological name came to his mind one which sounded well and which moreover was not out of place in designating a spinstress the clotho of antiquity is the youngest of the three fates she holds the distaff whence our destinies are spun a distaff wound with plenty of rough flocks just a few shreds of silk and very rarely a thin strand of gold prettily shaped and clad as far as a spider can be the clotho of the naturalists is above all a highly talented spinstress and this is the reason why she is called after the distaff bearing deity of the infernal regions it is a pity that the analogy extends no further the mythological clotho niggardly with her silk and lavish with her coarse flocks spins us a harsh existence the eightlegged clotho iises naught but exquisite silk she works for herself the other works for us who are hardly worth the trouble would we make her acquaintance on the rocky slopes in the oliveland scorched and blistered by the sun turn over the flat stones those of a fair size search above all the piles which the shepherds set up for a seat whence to watch the sheep browsing amongst the lavender below do not be too easily dis heartened the clotho is rare not every spot suits her if fortune smile at last upon our perseverance we shall see clinging to the lower surface of the stone which we have lifted an edifice of a weatherbeaten aspect shaped like an overturned cupola and about the size of half a tangerine orange the out side is encrusted or hung with small shells particles of earth and especially dried insects the edge of the cupola is scalloped into a dozen angular lobes the points of which spread and are fixed to the stone in between these straps is the same number of spacious inverted arches the whole represents the ishmaelites camelhair tent but upside down a flat roof stretched between the straps closes the top of the dwelling then where is the entrance all the arches of the edge open upon the roof not one leads to the interior the eye seeks in vain there is naught to point to a passage between the inside and the outside yet the owner of the house must go out from time to time were it only in search of food on return ing from her expedition she must go in again how does she make her exits and her en trances a straw will tell us the secret pass it over the threshold of the various arches everywhere the searching straw en counters resistance everywhere it finds the place rigorously closed but one of the scallops differing in no wise from the others in appearance if cleverly coaxed opens at the edge into two lips and stands slightly ajar this is the door which at once shuts again of its own elasticity nor is this all the spider when she returns home often bolts herself in that is to say she joins and fastens the two leaves of the door with a little silk the mason mygale is no safer in her burrow with its lid undistinguishable from the soil and moving on a hinge than is the clotho in her tent which is inviolable by any enemy ignorant of the device the clotho fy when in danger runs quickly home she opens the chink with a touch of her claw enters and disappears the door closes of itself and is supplied in case of need with a lock consist ing of a few threads no burglar led astray by the multiplicity of arches one and all alike will ever discover how the fugitive vanished so suddenly while the clotho displays a more simple ingenuity as regards her defensive machinery she is incomparably ahead of the mygale in the matter of domestic comfort let us open her cabin what luxury we are taught how a sybarite of old was unable to rest owing to the presence of a crumpled roseleaf in his bed the clotho is quite as fastidious her couch is more delicate than swansdown and whiter than the fleece of the clouds where brood the summer storms it is the ideal blanket above is a canopy or tester of equal softness between the two nestles the spider shortlegged clad in sombre garments with five yellow favours on her back rest in this exquisite retreat demands perfect stability especially on gusty days when sharp draughts penetrate beneath the stone this condition is admirably fulfilled take a careful look at the habitation the arches that gird the roof with a balustrade and bear the weight of the edifice are fixed to the slab by their extremities moreover from each point of contact there issues a cluster of diverging threads that creep along the stone and cling to it throughout their length which spreads afar i have measured some that were fully nine inches long these are so many cables they represent the ropes and pegs that hold the arabs tent in position with such supports as these so numerous and so methodically arranged the hammock cannot be torn from its bearings save by the intervention of brutal methods with whidi the spider need not concern herself so seldom do they occur another detail attracts our attention whereas the interior of the house is exquisitely clean the outside is covered with dirt bits of earth chips of rotten wood little pieces of gravel often there are worse things still the exterior of the tent becomes a charnel house here hung up or embedded are the dry carcasses of opatra asidae and other tenebrionidae that favour underrock shelters one of the largest families of beetles darkish in colour and shunning the lighttranslators note segments of luli bleached by the sun shells of pupae common among the stones and lastly snailshells selected from among the smallest these relics are obviously for the most part tableleavings broken victuals un versed in the trappers art the clotho courses her game and lives upon the vagrants who wander from one stone to another whoso ventures under the slab at night is strangled by the hostess and the driedup carcass instead of being flung to a distance is hung to the silken wall as though the spider wished to make a bogeyhouse of her home but this cannot be her aim to act like the ogre who hangs his victims from the castle battlements is the worst way to disarm suspicion in the passersby whom you are lying in wait to capture there are other reasons which increase our doubts the shells hung up are most often empty but there are also some occupied by the snail alive and untouched what can the clotho do with a pupa cinerea a pupa quad the lulus is one of the family of myriapods which includes centipedes etc  translators note  a species of landsnail  translators note ridens and other narrow spirals wherein the animal retreats to an inaccessible depth the spider is incapable of breaking the calcareous shell or of getting at the hermit through the opening then why should she collect those prizes whose slimy flesh is probably not to her taste we begin to suspect a simple question of ballast and balance the house spider prevents her web spun in a comer of the wall from losing its shape at the least breath of air by loading it with crumbling plaster and allowing tiny fragments of mortar to accumu late are we face to face with a similar process let us try experiment which is preferable to any amount of conjecture to rear the clotho is not an arduous under taking we are not obliged to take the heavy flagstone on which the dwelling is built away with us a very simple operation sufiices i loosen the fastenings with my pocketknife the spider has such stayathome ways that she very rarely makes off besides i use the utmost discretion in my rape of the house and so i carry away the building together with its owner in a paper bag the flat stones which are too heavy to move and which would occupy too much room upon my table are replaced either by deal disks which once formed part of cheese boxes or by round pieces of cardboard i ar range each silken hanunock under one of these by itself fastening the angular projections one by one with strips of gummed paper the whole stands on three short pillars and gives a very fair imitation of the underrock shelter in the form of a small dolmen throughout this operation if you are careful to avoid shocks and jolts the spider remains indoors finally each apparatus is placed under a wire gauze bellshaped cage which stands in a dish filled with sand we can have an answer by the next morn ing if among the cabins swung from the ceilings of the deal or cardboard dolmens there be one that is all dilapidated that was seriously knocked out of shape at the time of removal the spider abandons it during the night and instals herself elsewhere sometimes even on the trelliswork of the wire cage the new tent the work of a few hours attains hardly the diameter of a twofranc piece it is built however on the same prin ciples as the old manorhouse and consists of two thin sheets laid one above the other the upper one flat and forming a tester the lower curved and pocketshaped the texture is extremely delicate the least trifle would deform it to the detriment of the available space which is already much reduced and only just sufficient for the recluse well what has the spider done to keep the gossamer stretched to steady it and to make it retain its greatest capacity exactly what our static treatises would advise her to do she has ballasted her structure she has done her best to lower its centre of gravity from the convex surface of the pocket hang long chaplets of grains of sand strung together with slender silken cords to these sandy stalactites which form a bushy beard are added a few heavy lumps hung separately and lower down at the end of a thread the whole is a piece of ballastwork an apparatus for ensuring equilibrium and tension the present edifice hastily constructed in the space of a night is the frail rough sketch of what the home will afterwards become successive layers will be added to it and the partitionwall will grow into a thick blanket capable of partly retaining by its own weight the requisite curve and capacity the spider now abandons the stalactites of sand which were used to keep the original pocket stretched and confines herself to dumping down on her abode any more or less heavy object mainly corpses of insects because she need not look for these and finds them ready to hand after each meal they are weights not trophies they take the place of materials that must otherwise be collected from a dis tance and hoisted to the top in this way a breastwork is obtained that strengthens and steadies the house additional equilibrium is often supplied by tiny shells and other objects hanging a long way down what would happen if one robbed an old dwelling long since completed of its outer covering in case of such a disaster would the spider go back to the sandy stalactites as a ready means of restoring stability this is easily ascertained in my hamlets under wire i select a fairs cabin i strip the exterior carefully removing any foreign body the silk reappears in its original whiteness the tent looks magnificent but seems to me too limp this is also the spiders opinion she sets to work next evening to put things right and how once more with hanging strings of sand in a few nights the silk bag bristles with a long thick beard of stalactites a curious piece of work excellently adapted to maintain the web in an unvaried curve even so are the cables of a suspensionbridge steadied by the weight of the superstructure later as the spider goes on feeding the remains of the victuals are embedded in the wall the sand is shaken and gradually drops away and the home resumes its charnelhouse appearance this brings us to the same con clusion as before the clotho knows her statics by means of additional weights she is able to lower the centre of gravity and thus to give her dwelling the proper equilibrium and capacity now what does she do in her softlywadded home nothing that i know of with a full stomach her legs luxuriously stretched over the downy carpet she does nothing thinks of nothing she listens to the sound of earth revolving on its axis it is not sleep still less is it waking it is a middle state where naught prevails save a dreamy consciousness of wellbeing we ourselves when comfort ably in bed enjoy just before we fall asleep a few moments of bliss the prelude to cessa tion of thought and its train of worries and those moments are among the sweetest in our lives the clotho seems to know similar moments and to make the most of them if i push open the door of the cabin in variably i find the spider lying motionless as though in endless meditation it needs the teasing of a straw to rouse her from her apathy it needs the prick of hunger to bring her out of doors and as she is extremely temperate her appearances outside are few and far between during three years of assiduous observation in the privacy of my study i have not once seen her explore the domain of the wire cage by day not until a late hour at night does she venture forth in quest of victuals and it is hardly feasible to follow her on her excursions patience once enabled me to find her at ten oclock in the evening taking the air on the flat roof of her house where she was doubt less waiting for the game to pass startled by the light of my candle the lover of dark ness at once returned indoors refusing to reveal any of her secrets only next day there was one more corpse hanging from the wall ojf the cabin a proof that the chase was successfully resumed after my depar ture the clotho who is not only nocturnal but also excessively shy conceals her habits from us she shows us her works those precious historical documents but hides her actions especially the laying which i estimate ap proximately to take place in october the sum total of the eggs is divided into five or six small flat lentiform pockets which taken together occupy the greater part of the maternal home these capsules have each their own partitionwall of superb white satin but they are so closely soldered both to gether and to the floor of the house that it is impossible to part them without tearing them impossible therefore to obtain them sep arately the eggs in all amount to about a hundred the mother sits upon the heap of pockets with the same devotion as a brooding hen maternity has not withered her although decreased in bulk she retains an excellent look of health her round belly and her well stretched skin tell us from the first that her part is not yet wholly played the hatching takes place early november has not arrived before the pockets contain the young wee things clad in black with five yellow specks exactly like their elders the newborn do not leave their respective nur series packed close together they spend the whole of the wintry season there while the mother squatting on the pile of cells watches over the general safety without knowing her family other than by the gentle trepidations felt through the partitions of the tiny cham bers the labyrinth spider has shown us how she maintains a permanent sitting for two months in her guardroom to defend in case of need the brood which she will never see the clotho does the same during eight months thus earning the right to set eyes for a little while on her family trotting around her in the main cabin and to assist at the final exodus the great journey undertaken at the end of a thread when the summer heat arrives in june the young ones probably aided by their mother pierce the walls of their cells leave the maternal tent of which they know the secret outlet well take the air on the threshold for a few hours and then fly away carried to some distance by a funicular aeroplane the first product of their spinningmill the elder clotho remains behind careless of this emigration which leaves her alone she is far from being faded indeed she looks younger than ever her fresh colour her robust appearance suggest great length of life capable of producing a second family on this subject i have but one document a pretty farreaching one however there were a few mothers whose actions i had the patience to watch despite the wearisome minutiae of the rearing and the slowness of the result these abandoned their dwellings after the departure of their young and each went to weave a new one for herself on the wire net work of the cage they were roughandready summaries the work of a night two hangings one above the other the upper one flat the lower con cave and ballasted with stalactites of grains of sand formed the new home which strengthened daily by fresh layers promised to become similar to the old one why does the spider desert her former mansion which is in no way dilapidated  far from it  and still exceedingly serviceable as far as one can judge unless i am mistaken i think i have an inkling of the reason the old cabin comfortably wadded though it be possesses serious disadvantages it is littered with the ruins of the childrens nurseries these ruins are so closewelded to the rest of the home that my forceps cannot extract them without difficulty and to remove them would be an exhausting business for the clotho and possibly beyond her strength it is a case of the resistance of gordian knots which not even the very spinstress who fastened them is capable of untying the encumbering litter therefore will remain if the spider were to stay alone the re duction of space when all is said would hardly matter to her she wants so little room merely enough to move inl besides when you have spent seven or eight months in the cramping presence of those bedchambers what can be the reason of a sudden need for greater space i see but one the spider re quires a roomy habitation not for herself  she is satisfied with the smallest den  but for a second family where is she to place the pockets of eggs if the ruins of the previous laying remain in the way a new brood requires a new home that no doubt is why feeling that her ovaries are not yet dried up the spider shifts her quarters and founds a new establishment the facts observed ar confined to this change of dwelling i regret that other in terests and the difficulties attendant upon a long upbringing did not allow me to pursue the question and definitely to settle the matter of the repeated layings and the longevity of the clotho as i did in that of the lycosa before taking leave of this spider let us glance at a curious problem which has already been set by the lycosas offspring when carried for seven months on the mothers back they keep in training as agile gymnasts with out taking any nourishment it is familiar exercise for them after a fall which fre quently occurs to scramble up a leg of their mount and nimbly to resume their place in the saddle they expend energy without receiv ing any material sustenance the sons of the clotho the labyrinth spider and many others confront us with the same riddle they move yet do not eat at any period of the nursery stage even in the heart of winter on the bleak days of january i tear the pockets of the one and the taber nacle of the other expecting to find the swarm of youngsters lying in a state of complete inertia numbed by the cold and by lack of food well the result is quite different the instant their cells are broken open the anchorites run out and flee in every direction as nimbly as at the best moments of their normal liberty it is marvellous to see them scampering about no brood of partridges stumbled upon by a dog scatters more promptly chicks while still no more than tiny balls of yellow fluff hasten up at the mothers call and scurry towards the plate of rice habit has made us indifferent to the spectacle of those pretty little animal machines which work so nimbly and with such precision we pay no attention so simple does it all appear to us science examines and looks at things differently she says to herself nothing is made with nothing the chick feeds itself it consumes or rather it assimi lates and turns the food into heat which is converted into energy were any one to tell us of a chick which for seven or eight months on end kept itself in condition for running always fit always brisk without taking the least beakful of nourishment from the day when it left the cgg» we could find no words strong enough to express our incredulity now this paradox of activity maintained without the stay of food is real by the clotho spider and others i believe i have made it sufficiently clear that the young lycosae take no food as long as they remain with their mother strictly speaking doubt is just admissible for observa tion is needs dumb as to what may happen earlier or later within the mysteries of the burrow it seems possible that the repleted mother may there disgorge to her family a mite of the contents of her crop to this suggestion the clotho undertakes to make reply like the lycosa she lives with her family but the clotho is separated from them by the walls of the cells in which the little ones are hermetically enclosed in this condition the transmission of solid nourishment be comes impossible should any one entertain a theory of nutritive humours cast up by the mother and filtering through the partitions at which the prisoners might come and drink the labyrinth spider would at once dispel the idea she dies a few weeks after her young are hatched and the children still locked in their satin bedchamber for the best part of the year are none the less active can it be that they derive sustenance from the silken wrapper do they eat their house the supposition is not absurd for we have seen the epeirae before beginning a new web swallow the ruins of the old but the explanation cannot be accepted as we learn from the lycosa whose family boasts no silky screen in short it is certain that the young of whatever species take absolutely no nourishment lastly we wonder whether they may possess within themselves reserves that come from the egg fatty or other matters the gradual combustion of which would be trans formed into mechanical force if the ex penditure of energy were of but short dura tion a few hours or a few days we could gladly welcome this idea of a motor viaticum the attribute of every creature bom into the world the chick possesses it in a high degree it is steady on its legs it moves for a little while with the sole aid of the food wherewith the egg furnishes it but soon if the stomach is not kept supplied the centre of energy becomes extinct and the bird dies how would the chick fare if it were expected for seven or eight months without stopping to stand on its feet to run about to flee in the face of danger where would it stow the necessary reserves for such an amount of work the little spider in her turn is a minute particle of no size at all where could she store enough fuel to keep up mobility dur ing so long a period the imagination shrinks in dismay before the thought of an atom endowed with exhaustible motive oils we must needs therefore appeal to the immaterial in particular to heatrays coming from the outside and converted into move ment by the organism this is nutrition of energy reduced to its simplest expression the motive heat instead of being extracted from the food is util direct as supplied by the sun which is the seat of all life inert matter has disconcerting secrets as witness radium living matter has secrets of its own which are more wonderful still nothing tells us that science will not one day turn the suspicion sug gested by the spider into an established truth and a fundamental theory of physiology t find myself confronted with a subject which is not only highly interesting but somewhat difficult not that the subject is obscure but it presupposes in the reader a certain knowledge of geometry a strong meat too often neglected i am not ad dressing geometricians who are generally indifferent to questions of instinct nor entomo logical collectors who as such take no interest in mathematical theorems i write for any one with sufficient intelligence to enjoy the lessons which the insect teaches what am i to do to suppress this chapter were to leave out the most remarkable instance of spider industry to treat it as it should be treated that is to say with the whole armoury of scientific formulae would be out of place in these modest pages let us take a middle course avoiding both abstruse truths and complete ignorance let us direct our attention to the nets of the epeirae preferably to those of the silky epeira and the banded epeira so plentiful in the autumn in my part of the country and so remarkable for their bulk we shall first observe that the radii are equally spaced the angles formed by each consecutive pair are of perceptibly equal value and this in spite of their number which in the case of the silky epeira exceeds two score we know by what strange means the spider attains her ends and divides the area wherein the web is to be warped into a large number of equal sectors a number which is almost invariable in the work of each species an operation without method governed one might imagine by an irresponsible whim results in a beautiful rose window worthy of our compasses we shall also notice that in each sector the various chords the elements of the spiral windings are parallel to one another and gradually draw closer together as they near the centre with the two radiating lines that frame them they form obtuse angles on one side and acute angles on the other and these angles remain constant in the same sector because the chords are parallel there is more than this these same angles the obtuse as well as the acute do not alter in value from one sector to another at any rate so far as the conscientious eye can judge taken as a whole therefore the ropelatticed edifice consists of a series of crossbars inter secting the several radiating lines obliquely at angles of equal value by this characteristic we recognize the logarithmic spiral geometricians give this name to the curve which intersects obliquely at angles of unvarying value all the straight lines or radii vectores radiating from a centre called the pole the epeiras con struction therefore is a series of chords join ing the intersections of a logarithmic spiral with a series of radii it would become merged in this spiral if the number of radii were infinite for this would reduce the length of the rectilinear elements indefinitely and change this polygonal line into a curve to suggest an explanation why this spiral has so greatly exercised the meditations of science let us confine ourselves for the present to a few statements of which the reader will find the proof in any treatise on higher geometry the logarithmic spiral describes an endless number of circuits around its pole to which it constantly draws nearer without ever being able to reach it this central point is inde finitely inaccessible at each approaching turn it is obvious that this property is beyond our sensory scope even with the help of the best philosophical instruments our sight could not follow its interminable windings and would soon abandon the attempt to divide the in visible it is a volute to which the brain con ceives no limits the trained mind alone more discerning than our retina sees clearly that which defies the perceptive faculties of the eye the epeira complies to the best of her ability with this law of the endless volute the spiral revolutions come closer together as they approach the pole at a given distance they stop abruptly but at this point the auxiliary spiral which is not destroyed in the central region takes up the thread and we see it not without some surprise draw nearer to the pole in evernarrowing and scarcely perceptible circles there is not of course absolute mathematical accuracy but a very close approximation to that accuracy the epeira winds nearer and nearer round her pole so far as her equipment which like our own is defective will allow her one would believe her to be thoroughly versed in the laws of the spiral i will continue to set forth without ex planations some of the properties of this curious curve picture a flexible thread wound round a logarithmic spiral if we then un wind it keeping it taut the while its free extremity will describe a spiral similar at all points to the original the curve will merely have changed places jacques bernouilli to whom geometry owes this magnificent theorem had engraved on his tomb as one of his proudest titles to fame the generating spiral and its double begotten of the unwinding of the thread an inscription proclaimed eadem mutata resurgo i rise again like unto myself geometry would find it difficult to better this splendid flight of fancy towards the great problem of the hereafter there is another geometrical epitaph no less famous cicero when quaestor in sicily jacques bernouilli professor of mathe matics at the university of basel from to the year of his death he improved the differential calculus solved the isopcrimetrical problem and discovered the properties of the logarithmic spiral  translators note searching for the tomb of archimedes amid the thorns and brambles that cover us with oblivion recogn it among the ruins by the geometrical figure engraved upon the stone the cylinder circumscribing the sphere archimedes in fact was the first to know the approximate relation of circumference to diameter from it he deduced the perimeter and surface of the circle as well as the surface and volume of the sphere he showed that the surface and volume of the lastnamed equal twothirds of the surface and volume of the circumscribing cylinder disdaining all pompous inscription the learned syracusan honoured himself with his theorem as his sole epitaph the geometrical figure proclaimed the individuals name as plainly as would any alphabetical characters to have done with this part of our subject here is another property of the logarithmic spiral roll the curve along an indefinite straight line its pole will become displaced while still keeping on one straight line the endless scroll leads to rectilinear progression the perpetually varied begets uniformity now is this logarithmic spiral with its curious properties merely a conception of the geometers combining number and extent at will so as to imagine a tenebrous abyss where in to practise their analytical methods after wards is it a mere dream in the night of the intricate an abstract riddle flung out for our understanding to browse upon no it is a reality in the service of life a method of construction frequently employed in animal architecture the mollusc in particular never rolls the winding ramp of the shell without reference to the scientific curve the firstborn of the species knew it and put it into practice it was as perfect in the dawn of creation as it can be today let us study in this connection the am monites those venerable relics of what was once the highest expression of living things at the time when the solid land was taking shape from the oceanic ooze cut and polished lengthwise the fossil shows a magnificent logarithmic spiral the general pattern of the dwelling which was a pearl palace with nu merous chambers traversed by a siphuncular corridor to this day the last representative of the cephalopoda with partitioned shells the nautilus of the southern seas remains faith ful to the ancient design it has not improved upon its distant predecessors it has altered the position of the siphuncle has placed it in the centre instead of leaving it on the back but it still whirls its spiral logarithmically as did the ammonites in the earliest ages of the worlds existence and let us not run away with the idea that these princes of the mollusc tribe have a monopoly of the scientific curve in the stagnant waters of our grassy ditches the flat shells the humble planorbes sometimes no bigger than a duckweed vie with the ammo nite and the nautilus in matters of higher geometry at least one of them planorbis vortex for example is a marvel of logarith mic whorls in the longshaped shells the structure becomes more complex though remaining subject to the same fundamental laws i have before my eyes some species of the genus terebra from new caledonia they are ex tremely tapering cones attaining almost nine inches in length their surface is smooth and quite plain without any of the usual orna ments such as furrows knots or strings of pearls the spiral edifice is superb graced po with its own simplicity alone i count a score of whorls which gradually decrease until they vanish in the delicate point they are edged with a fine groove i take a pencil and draw a rough generat ing line to this cone and relying merely on the evidence of my eyes which are more or less practised in geometric measurements i find that the spiral groove intersects this gen erating line at an angle of unvarying value the consequence of this result is easily deduced if projected on a plane perpendic ular to the axis of the shell the generating lines of the cone would become radii and the groove which winds upwards from the base to the apex would be converted into a plane curve which meeting those radii at an unvary ing angle would be neither more nor less than a logarithmic spiral conversely the groove of the shell may be considered as the projec tion of this spiral on a conic surface better still let us imagine a plane per pendicular to the axis of the shell and passing through its summit let us imagine more over a thread wound along the spiral groove let us unroll the thread holding it taut as we do so its extremity will not leave the plane and will describe a logarithmic spiral within it it rs in a more complicated degree a variant of bemouillis eadem mutata resurge the logarithmic conic curve becomes a logarithmic plane curve a similar geometry is found in the other shells with elongated cones turritellae spindleshells cerithia as well as in the shells with flattened cones trochidae turbines the spherical shells those whirled into a volute are no exception to this rule all down to the common snailshell are con structed according to logarithmic laws the famous spiral of the geometers is the general plan followed by the mollusc rolling its stone sheath where do these glairy creatures pick up this science we are told that the mollusc derives from the worm one day the worm rendered frisky by the sun emanci pated itself brandished its tail and twisted it into a corkscrew for sheer glee there and then the plan of the future spiral shell was discovered this is what is taught quite seriously in these days as the very last word in scientific progress it remains to be seen up to what point the explanation is acceptable the spider for her part will have none of it un related to the appendixlacking corkscrew twirling worm she is nevertheless familiar with the logarithmic spiral from the cele brated curve she obtains merely a sort of framework but elementary though this framework be it clearly hiarks the ideal edifice the epeira works on the same prin ciples as the mollusc of the convoluted shell the mollusc has years wherein to construct its spiral and it uses the utmost finish in the whirling process the epeira to spread her net has but an hours sitting at the most wherefore the speed at which she works com pels her to rest content with a simpler pro duction she shortens the task by confining herself to a skeleton of the curve which the other describes to perfection the epeira therefore is versed in the geo metric secrets of the ammonite and the nautilus pompilus she uses in a simpler form the logarithmic line dear to the snail what guides her there is no appeal here to a wriggle of some kind as in the case of the worm that ambitiously aspires to become a mollusc the animal must needs carry within itself a virtual diagram of its spiral acci dent however fruitful in surprises we may presume it to be can never have taught it the higher geometry wherein our own intelligence at once goes astray without a strict prelimi nary training are we to recognize a mere effect of organic structure in the epeiras art we readily think of the legs which endowed with a very varying power of extension might serve as compasses more or less bent more or less outstretched they would mechanically determine the angle whereat the spiral shall intersect the radius they would maintain the parallel of the chords in each sector certain objections arise to affirm that in this instance the tool is not the sole regulator of the work were the arrangment of the thread determined by the length of the legs we should find the spiral volutes separated more widely from one another in proportion to the greater length of implement in the spinstress we see this in the banded epeira and the silky epeira the first has longer limbs and spaces her crossthreads more liberally than does the second whose legs are shorter but we must not rely too much on this rule say others the angular epeira the pale tinted epeira and the diadem epeira or cross spider all three more or less short limbed rival the banded epeira in the spac ing of their limesnares the last two even dispose them with greater intervening distances we recognize in another respect that the organization of the animal does not imply an immutable type of work before beginning the sticky spiral the epeirae first spin an auxiliary intended to strengthen the stays this spiral formed of plain nonglutinous thread starts from the centre and winds in rapidlywidening circles to the circumference it is merely a temporary construction where of naught but thet central part survives when the spider has set its limy meshes the second spiral the essential part of the snare proceeds on the contrary in serried coils from the circumference to the centre and is com posed entirely of viscous crossthreads here we have following one upon the other by a sudden alteration of the machine two volutes of an entirely different order as regards direction the number of whorls and the angle of intersection both of them are logarithmic spirals i see no mechanism of the legs be they long or short that can ac count for this alteration can it then be a premeditated design on the part of the epeira can there be calcula tion measurement of angles gauging of the parallel by means of the eye or otherwise i am inclined to think that there is none of all this or at least nothing but an innate pro pensity whose effects the animal is no more able to control than the flower is able to con trol the arrangement of its verticils the epeira practises higher geometry without knowing or caring the thing works of itself and takes its impetus from an instinct im posed upon creation from the start the stone thrown by the hand returns to earth describing a certain curve the dead leaf torn and wafted away by a breath of wind makes its journey from the tree to the ground with a similar curve on neither the one side nor the other is there any action by the mov ing body to regulate the fall nevertheless the descent takes place according to a scientific trajectory the parabola of which the section of a cone by a plane furnished the prototype to the geometers speculations a figure which was at first but a tentative glimpse be comes a reality by the fall of a pebble out of the vertical the same speculations take up the para bola once more imagine it rolling on an indefinite straight line and ask what course does the focus of this curve follow the answer comes the focus of the parabola de scribes a catenary a line very simple in shape but endowed with an algebraic symbol that has to resort to a kind of cabalistic num ber at variance with any sort of numeration much so that the unit refuses to express it however much we subdivide the unit it is called the number e its value is repre sented by the following series carried out ad infinitum ir i ii  if the reader had the patience to work out the few initial terms of this series which has no limit because the series of natural numerals itself has none he would find with this weird number are we now sta tioned within the strictly defined realm of the imagination not at all the catenary ap pears actually every time that weight and flexibility act in concert the name is given to the curve formed by a chain suspended by two of its points which are not placed on a vertical line it is the shape taken by a flex ible cord when held at each end and relaxed it is the line that governs the shape of a sail bellying in the wind it is the curve of the nannygoats milkbag when she returns from filling her trailing udder and all this answers to the number e what a quantity of abstruse science for a bit of string i let us not be surprised a pellet of shot swinging at the end of a thread a drop of dew trickling down a straw a splash of water rippling under the kisses of the air a mere trifle after all requires a titanic scaffolding when we wish to examine it with the eye of calculation we need the club of hercules to crush a fly our methods of mathematical investigation are certainly ingenious we cannot too much admire the mighty brains that have invented them but how slow and laborious they appear when compared with the smallest actualities will it never be given to us to probe reality in a simpler fashion will our intelligence be able one day to dispense with the heavy arsenal of formulae why not here we have the abracadabric number e reappearing inscribed on a spiders thread let us examine on a misty morning the mesh work that has been constructed during the night owing to their hygrometrical nature the sticky threads are laden with tiny drops and bending under the burden have become so many catenaries so many chaplets of limpid gems graceful chaplets arranged in exquisite order and following the curve of a swing if the sun pierce the mist the whole lights up with iridescent fires and becomes a resplendent cluster of diamonds the number e is in its glory geometry that is to say the science of harmony in space presides over everything we find it in the arrangement of the scales of a fircone as in the arrangement of an epeiras limesnare we find it in the spiral of a snail shell in the chaplet of a spiders thread as in the orbit of a planet it is everywhere as perfect in the world of atoms as in the world of immensities and this universal geometry tells us of an universal gcometrican whose divine compass has measured all things i prefer that as an explanation of the logarithmic curve of the ammonite and the epeira to the worm screwing up the tip of its tail it may not perhaps be in accordance with latterday teaching but it takes a loftier flight jeshna grandis see dragonfly agelena labyrinthica see labyrinui spider american tarantula see mygale ammonite » ammophila see hairy ammophila angular epeira anoxia anthophagus archimedes argyroneta see water spider asids b baglivi giorgio » baker w s graff banded epeira i bee see bumblebee car penterbee domestic bee masonbee beetle bernouilli jacques bird spider see mygale blackbellied tarantula see narbonnc ly cosa bluebottle bombus see bumblebee bumblebee bunting buprestis butterfly carpenterbee caterpillar n centipede cephalopoda cerceris i cerithia cetonia chaflinch chick cicada i cicero cigau see cicada clothesmoth clotho durandi see qotho spider qotho spider cockchafer copris crab spider crater epeira crested lark cricket cross spider cry plus see ichneumon fly debassaire see penduline titmouse diadem epeira see cross spider dog domestic bee dragonfly dufour leon dungbeetle i i durand e earthworm emiusa ephippigera epeira see garden spider epeira angulata see an gular epeira epeira cratera see crater epeira epeira diademasee cross spider epeira fasciata see banded epeira epeira pallida see pale tinted epeira epeira sericea sec silky epeira eumenes f fabre j henri fabrc paul field cricket see cricket fly g garden spider geotrupe gnat goldfinch grasshopper great peacock moth green cnflnch hairy ammophila hen horned viper hornet house spider ichneumonfly lulus labyrinth spider la fontaine jean langdale marmaduke languedocian scorpion languedocian sphcx lark see crested lark leafcutter see mega chile leucospis linnet locust lycosa narbonnensis see narbonne lycosa m mademoiselle mori au thor of « n maeterlinck maurice malmignatte mammoth mantis religiosa see praying mantis masonbee mason mygale see my gale megachile miall bernard n » s n michelet jules midge minotaurus typhaus mistral frederic n mole mosquito moth mygale n narbonne lycosa nautilus pompilus oilbeetle opatra opossum ortolan oryctes osmia pachytilus cinarescens paletinted eperia partridge pelopaeus penduline titmouse pentatomida philanthus apivorus planorbis vortex praying mantis ag processionary of the fine pupa cinerea pupa quadridens rattlesnake reduvius personatus reindeer rhinoceros beetle see oryctes rodwell miss frances rosechafer see cetonia tachytes tarantula tegenaria domestica see house spider teixeria de mattos alex ander n n n tenebnonidae terebra theridion lugubre thomisus onustus see crab spider tiberius the emperor trigonocephalus tryxalis turritella sacred beetle sambi scolia scorpion see languedo cian scorpion silky epeira snail spanishfly sparrow sphex see languedocian sphex spindleshell viper j horned viper w wasp water spider weevil worm see earthworm xylocopa violacea see carpenterbee yellowhammer






                         

CONTENTS


       CHAPTER I AN IMPULSE OF MISCHIEF

      CHAPTER II THE OMEN OF THE BUTTERFLY

     CHAPTER III THE GOOD NEWS

      CHAPTER IV A JEST BECOMES EARNEST

       CHAPTER V PROTECTIVE MIMICRY

      CHAPTER VI A NIGHT OF MISERY

     CHAPTER VII THE RESULT OF IMITATION

    CHAPTER VIII A RIFT IN THE CLOUDS

      CHAPTER IX WITH THE BUTTERFLIES

       CHAPTER X A BUTTERFLY AND A BOY

      CHAPTER XI AN INFANT PRODIGY

     CHAPTER XII THE ARRIVAL OF GUESTS

    CHAPTER XIII THE BUTTERFLY DINNER

     CHAPTER XIV A LITTLE SERMON

      CHAPTER XV THE ARRIVAL OF ADELE

     CHAPTER XVI "IT IS SO HARD TO DO THE RIGHT THING"

    CHAPTER XVII THE TWO CALLS

   CHAPTER XVIII A BREACH OF TRUST

     CHAPTER XIX THE CLOSED DOOR

      CHAPTER XX BEE IS DISAPPOINTED IN PERCIVAL

     CHAPTER XXI HOW THE DAY ENDED

    CHAPTER XXII "I SHOULDN'T WANT YOU TO BE ANYTHING BUT PRETTY"

   CHAPTER XXIII "THE GREATEST OF THESE IS CHARITY"

    CHAPTER XXIV "YOU ARE A NOBLE LITTLE GIRL"

     CHAPTER XXV THE DOOR IS OPENED

    CHAPTER XXVI A GREAT SURPRISE

   CHAPTER XXVII READY FOR THE VOYAGE




List of Illustrations


"WILLIAM," SHE CRIED, LAUGHING NERVOUSLY, "YOU HAVE MADE A MISTAKE. THAT
IS MY DAUGHTER, ADELE."

"I THINK THAT'S PRETTY GOOD FOR A GIRL."

BEE ENTERTAINS HER FATHER'S FRIENDS.

"OUT THROUGH THE OPEN WINDOW SAILED THE BUTTERFLY."

"I WOULD NOT HAVE YOU ANYTHING BUT PRETTY."




FOREWORD


The wonderful evolution of a caterpillar, or grub, into a beautifully
winged creature must inspire admiration in every one. More marvellous
still is the growth of the human soul which in many respects resembles
the development of the butterfly. It is this thought which has induced
the author to attempt to depict the transformation of a careless maiden
into noble womanhood.

In this first book, the process has begun. There are heart burnings, and
troubles of girlhood. In the second book, the journeyings and adventures
with her father, together with her development of character are treated.
The third, and final volume, takes up the bursting into glorious
womanhood of the girl, glorified by the coming of love.

For the curious facts and superstitions regarding butterflies woven into
the story, the author desires to acknowledge her indebtedness to Dr. W.
J. Holland's Butterfly Book, which is a compendium of knowledge on the
subject. That the story may meet with favor, and inspire young hearts
with an appreciation of these beautiful insects is the hope of the
author.

L. F. M.

New York City.








Chapter I

An Impulse of Mischief

    "When to mischief mortals bend their will,
    How soon they find fit instruments of ill."

    --_Pope. Rape of the Lock._


It was four o'clock. The little town of Louisiana, Missouri, had
slumbered all afternoon in the spring sunshine, but woke suddenly to
life as the doors of the big brick school house opened, and the boys and
girls poured forth. As the outgoing stream of pupils reached the gate
several High School girls left the line, and withdrawing a short
distance from the others, formed a little group by themselves, standing
with faces turned expectantly toward the door of the building as though
they were waiting for some one.

"I wonder why Bee doesn't come!" exclaimed one of the girls impatiently
as the line dwindled to two or three pupils, and then ceased altogether.
"I don't see why she pokes around that old school house so long?"

"She was going to help Professor Lawrence with some specimens," spoke a
tall girl quickly. "You know Bee likes--"

"Bugs," finished the other girl with a shiver. "Oo-ooh! I wouldn't
handle the worms, and creepy, crawly things that Bee Raymond does for
anything."

"It isn't bugs at all," answered the tall girl with a trace of
indignation in her voice. "It's caterpillars and butterflies. Bee's
making a special study of them so as to surprise her father when he
comes from abroad. He's a Lepidopterist, you know, and she is working to
fit herself to be his secretary."

"Is he coming home soon, Edna?" queried one of the others.

"Not for two more years," responded Edna, who seemed to be well informed
on the matter. "And just think, girls! Bee hasn't seen him for ten
years."

"Fancy not seeing one's own father in all that time," remarked the girl
who had first spoken. "Of course, it's just splendid to get letters from
abroad, and to have all those lovely things he sends her; but I don't
know, I think I'd rather have my father."

"Why, so would Bee," laughed Edna. "She's just crazy for him to come
home. She--"

"There she is now," cried one, and with new interest each member of the
group turned to look at the girl who at this moment came through the
door of the school house.

Beatrice Raymond was a slender girl, tall for her fifteen years, with
movements full of unconscious grace; for she had always been much in the
open air and was accustomed to perfect freedom in her limbs. She could
run as fast and jump as far as many boys who "fancied" themselves as
athletes. Her hair was very dark, very straight, and very abundant. Her
eyes were large, dark, and expressive; her complexion was dark also and
without color. She created the thought in the minds of those observers
who looked below the surface that there was intellect--thoughtful,
loving, and perhaps unusual intellect. A strap of books was flung over
her left shoulder, boy fashion, and her hat was set carelessly on one
side of her head. She was laughing as she came to them, and the girls
crowded around her eagerly.

"What's the joke, Bee?" cried Edna.

"It's a conundrum," answered Beatrice merrily. "Professor Lawrence just
told it to me. See if any of you can answer it: 'Why are caterpillars
like buckwheat cakes?'"

"Pooh! that's easy. Because they make the butter fly," answered one of
the group. The others shouted with laughter as Bee turned an astonished
look upon her.

"How did you know?" she asked. "Professor Lawrence just told it to me."

"Why, Beatrice Raymond, that joke was old before Professor Lawrence was
born," said the one called Edna. "It's as old as--as the hills, and may
be older for all I know. If you weren't so deep in that old Butterfly
book you would have heard it long ago. Here! let me fix that hat. What
would your Aunt Annie say if you were to come home with it at an angle
of forty-five degrees?"

"Is it so bad as all that, Edna?" asked Bee indifferently. "Someway, I
never do get my things on right. Now Adele's are always just so. I do
believe that she could dress in the dark, and come out looking as neat
as a pin."

"Where is Adele, Bee? Why didn't she come to school this afternoon?"

"She was not feeling well, so Aunt Annie thought it best to keep her
home," answered Beatrice. "Aren't you going now, girls? I must hurry."

"Oh, Bee! why?" came from the group in a chorus. "We've been waiting for
you ever so long so that you could go with us to Edna's. Do come! It
won't be any fun unless you do."

"I can't," replied Bee. "I'd like to ever so much, but I must finish my
letter to father. It has to be written today so that it can reach New
York in time for Saturday's steamer."

"Will you come tomorrow then?" asked Edna. "You and Adele too."

"Yes, if Aunt Annie doesn't mind. Now I must go. Good-bye, girls."

"Bee," called one as Beatrice started on at a brisk walk.

"Well?" Bee paused good naturedly.

"Edna was telling us how long your father had been away, and I want to
ask you if you think he would know you if he were to meet you
unexpectedly?"

"Oh, Sue, that's mean!" came from the girls in shocked tones. "Don't
answer her, Bee."

"But I don't ask for meanness," went on Sue apologetically as she saw
the look that came into Bee's eyes. "I really want to know."

"Why, of course he would know me," uttered Bee hastily. "I'm his
daughter."

"Yes; but--" began the irrepressible Sue, when Edna caught her about the
waist and pressed one hand firmly over her mouth.

"Go on, Bee," she cried. "I'll attend to her. You'll have to hurry if
you get home in time to finish that letter."

Beatrice turned, and slowly went on her way. Her uncle's house, where
she lived, was in the western outskirts of the town more than a mile
distant from the school. It behooved her to hasten if she were to finish
her letter before tea time, but that question of Sue's had set her to
thinking.

On the death of her mother, ten years before, her father, overwhelmed
with grief at his loss, had accepted an offer to go abroad to complete a
collection of lepidoptera for Union University, leaving her in charge
of his brother's family. His letters had been frequent, and so tender
and loving that the question of recognition had never occurred to her.

The houses became fewer as Beatrice reached the edge of town where the
main street became a turnpike with green fields on either side, and a
clear view of the distant hills. It was a beautiful April day. At the
opening of the month spring had smiled invitingly; then, as though
repenting her forwardness, she had retreated for a time, advancing again
with coy hesitancy until today all her windows were open toward summer.
In the zenith was a blue so soft and dreamy that it drew the soul as
well as the eye toward it. A haze of Tyrian hue purpled the hills that
encircled the little town, and mellowed the glory of the sunshine. There
were splashes of green in the meadows so delicate as to be almost
yellow, and along the brooks the willows played their fast greening
boughs against a background of gray wood color. The very earth was
odorous and the air was like balm, but Beatrice, usually susceptible to
the beauties of Nature, was in too abstracted a mood to be conscious of
the loveliness about her.

"But of course he would know me," she told herself at length,
reassuringly. "Why, I should know him, and I was only five years old
when he went away."

And with this she laughed aloud that she should have been so foolish as
to consider for even a moment the absurd possibility of her father's not
knowing her, and with her customary brightness of spirit restored she
quickened her steps, and soon reached her uncle's place.

There were many acres in the estate. Henry Raymond was a well to do
lawyer, and the walk to the dwelling lay through a large orchard. As Bee
came in sight of the house the door opened, and a girl, about her own
age, came out on the piazza, and ran down the steps to meet her. She was
an extremely pretty girl. A slim graceful figure was hers, with a proud
little head and sunny, shining hair that hung about her face with its
beautiful blue eyes like a halo. She seemed rather the personification
of loveliness than a flesh and blood maiden.

"What made you so late, Bee?" she cried. "I have been watching for you
fully an hour."

"I staid to help Professor Lawrence for one thing; then the girls
stopped me to talk with them. They want us to go to Edna's tomorrow
afternoon. Will you be well enough to go, Adele?"

"Oh, I'm all right now, Bee. Papa came home early with a box of
chocolates, and that seemed to be just what I needed."

Bee laughed.

"You butterfly," she said. "Always feeding on sweets. Did you leave me
any?"

"Well--" Adele Raymond hesitated. "Not many, and that's a fact, Bee. You
shouldn't have kept me waiting so long. And you haven't even noticed
that I have on a new hat."

"But I thought that yours had violets on it," remarked Bee as she
glanced at the hat. "That has red roses."

"Well, this one is yours, goosey. You're a funny girl, Bee, not to know
your own hat. I have been trying mine on, then I thought I'd wear yours
to meet you. And oh, Bee! the pictures have come too."

"What? Our photographs?" exclaimed Bee eagerly.

"Why Aunt Annie thought that we wouldn't have them for a week yet.
Where are they, Adele?"

"In the library. I never knew you to be so concerned about your picture
before, Bee."

"I am going to send one to father," observed Bee as she hurried into the
house. "It's come just in time to go out with the letter."

"But do come up stairs first, Bee, and see my new hat. Wouldn't you like
to see it?"

"I'd rather see the pictures," answered Bee making a dash for the
library, flinging her hat in one direction and her books in another as
she did so.

"Mamma won't like it if she sees your things lying about," observed her
cousin following her into the library.

"I'll pick them up just as soon as I see the photographs," said Bee
impatiently as she took up the pictures.

"Oh, Adele! how pretty you do look in yours; but mine--Oh, dear! it
certainly leaves much to be desired."

"Mamma said that your good looks lay in your expression," remarked her
cousin. "That is what makes it so hard to get a good picture of you,
Bee. You are not going to send it to Uncle William, are you?"

"Yes," answered Bee with determination. "I never would send one before
because I always hoped to get a good one, but tonight Sue Ford asked me
if I thought he would know me if he were to meet me unexpectedly, and I
am going to make sure of it. Now, if you don't mind, Adele, I'll begin
my letter at once."

"Oh, Bee. I have been so lonely and dull," pleaded Adele. "Must you
write it this very minute?"

"If I don't he won't hear from me at all this month, and father insists
on hearing once a month. It is such a little thing to do for him, and I
love to please him. It won't take me long."

"Of course then I must go away, and leave you alone," said her cousin
petulantly. "Mamma doesn't want me to bother you when you are writing to
him; but please don't be long, Bee."

"I won't," promised Bee, and at last she was left in peace.

An hour later Adele opened the door the merest trifle to peep in: "Mamma
wants you to come to her just as soon as you have finished Bee," she
said. "Are you through?"

"I have written the letter, but I haven't fixed the envelope for the
picture yet," answered Beatrice jumping up from the desk. "If you don't
mind doing it for me, Adele, I'll see what Aunt Annie wants."

"I don't mind a bit, Bee." Adele came into the room quickly. "Where is
the address?"

"Here!" Bee moved a slip of paper on the desk toward her. "He is to be
in Egypt this month."

"Just think of it," commented Adele bending over the desk. "That's a
long way off. Shall I put the picture in for you, Bee?"

But Bee had already left the room. Adele directed the envelope in her
best hand, then picked up her cousin's photograph, and looked at it
critically.

"Poor Bee!" she said aloud. "It isn't very good of her. I'd hate to have
my father think I looked like that if he was far away from me. And Bee
is much better looking. I suppose Uncle William won't mind though, as
she is his daughter. Now if it were my picture--"

She placed her own picture beside that of Bee's, and gazed at it
complacently. Suddenly she gave a little ripple of laughter:

"Wouldn't it be fun to send my picture instead of Bee's?" she exclaimed,
her eyes sparkling with mischief. "I believe I'll do it. Bee will never
know, and hers is really not good enough to send."

With this she slipped Bee's photograph into a drawer of the desk, placed
her own in the envelope, and sealed it just as Bee re-entered the room.

"You're a dear!" exclaimed Bee taking it from her, and picking up her
letter. "Aunt Annie wants me to go down town for her, and I'll be just
in time for the night mail."




Chapter II

The Omen of the Butterfly

    "Light and silv'ry cloudlets hover
      In the air as yet scarce warm;
    Mild, with glimmer soft tinged over,
      Peeps the sun through fragrant balm."

    _May Song. Goethe._


"I am so glad that I sent it," exclaimed Beatrice again and again after
posting the letter and the photograph. "Father has always wanted my
picture, but I waited hoping that sometime I'd get a good one. Still, it
will give him an idea of how I look even though it is a poor likeness. I
do wonder if he will like it!"

And with a roguish smile Adele would answer: "I think so, Bee."

The days passed. With more than her usual impatience Bee waited for an
answer to her letter. If the connections were prompt, if he were not
away from civilization on an extended butterfly hunt, if he wrote just
as soon as he received it, she ought to hear by the last of May, she
told herself; so, having arrived at this conclusion, she tried to rest
in patience until that time should come.

At length the timid beauties of April were merged into the exuberance of
the leaf and flower of May, and Nature was resplendent in the full glory
of the springtide. The last day of the month fell upon a Saturday, and
early in the morning of that day Bee dressed herself to go into town for
the mail. Seating herself upon the steps of the piazza to wait for Adele
who was to accompany her she feasted her eyes upon the beauty of the
orchard whose trees seemed like great pink and white bouquets set in the
ground. Suddenly a puff of wind stirred the branches, and sent the
petals of the apple blossoms flying in every direction.

"Dear me!" exclaimed the girl springing up from the steps in pretended
dismay as a shower of the fragrant blooms deluged her. "Snow in May! I
told Adele that it would be Christmas before she was ready. Come out,
and see the storm, Aunt Annie."

A lady standing just inside a long French window which opened upon the
porch came through it to her niece's side.

"What an idea!" she said in a clear musical voice.

"Get the broom, Bee, and sweep off the steps. I shall be glad when the
blossoms are gone. They make such a litter."

"Why, Aunt Annie, glad when the blossoms are gone? You can't mean it.
Just look at those trees! Did you ever see anything so pretty?"

"They are pretty enough, child," returned Mrs. Raymond carelessly.
"There! cease your rhapsodies, and get the broom. When you have seen as
many Springs as I have you won't be quite so ecstatic over them."

"I believe that I'll always feel just as I do now," declared Bee as she
ran for the broom. "When the trees begin to bud something gets into my
being that makes me feel like--like--Oh, like Alexander the Great: that
I could conquer the world."

"It's the wine of youth in your blood, Bee." The lady smiled at the
girl's enthusiasm. "That's what it is to be young. You are very like
your father."

"Am I, auntie?" Beatrice flushed with pleasure.

"Yes. At least you are in regard to your feeling for Nature. He sees
beauty in everything; or used to do so. It seems to be a family trait of
the Raymonds. I don't notice it so much in Adele; but then she takes
after my people."

"Perhaps it is because she is so beautiful herself," remarked Bee
meditatively. "I've noticed that people don't prize what they themselves
possess."

"Don't say that, Bee. You are far from being homely," spoke Mrs. Raymond
graciously, noting a trace of wistfulness in her niece's tone. "Beside,
'Beauty is only skin--'"

"Yes; I know, Aunt Annie. Spare me!" The girl put her hand in laughing
protest over her aunt's mouth. "Still, I wouldn't mind having the skin.
I just believe that that saying, and the other: 'Handsome is as handsome
does,' were invented by some ugly old thing with a skin as yellow as a
pumpkin. Oh, here is Adele at last!"

Mrs. Raymond laughed, and turned toward the door through which her
daughter came, her face aglow with pride.

"Beatrice has been ready a long time," she chided, the gentleness of her
tone softening the reproof. "You should not have kept her waiting, my
daughter, when this is the day she is expecting a letter from her
father."

"Don't scold her, auntie," pleaded Bee gazing at her cousin with
admiring eyes. "Oh, Adele! how do you make yourself look so pretty?"

Adele smiled, well pleased. She was accustomed to being told of her
beauty, but she never wearied of the homage it exacted.

"You look nice too, Bee," she said condescendingly with a glance of
approval at Beatrice's white robed figure. "Aren't you going to wear any
hat?"

"I am going to carry it until we reach the road." Bee caught up a broad
brimmed leghorn from a chair, and held it carelessly by the strings. "I
don't like to wear one any more than I have to. I'll beat you to the
gate, Adele."

"A race?" Adele drew her brows together in a prim little frown. "Such
great girls as we are. Why, we are almost young ladies! It would not be
proper."

"Bother propriety!" ejaculated her cousin. "There is a whole year before
we are sixteen. We don't need to give up running until then. Do we,
auntie?"

"No;" answered her aunt indulgently. "Be girls just as long as you can.
You will be young ladies soon enough. I wish Adele would take more
exercise."

"Just through the orchard then," cried Adele catching up her skirts
daintily. "Here goes! Oh, Bee!"

"What's the matter?" asked Bee, surprised.

"No wonder you could be dressed before I was," exclaimed Adele in
shocked tones. "There are three buttons of your dress unfastened."

"Are there?" Bee backed up to her unconcernedly. "Do button them, like a
dear. I never was good at closing exercises."

Adele giggled appreciatively.

"Professor Lawrence says that closing exercises should be marked by
decorum as well as dispatch," she remarked in didatic accents. "I
observe the dispatch, Miss Raymond, but I must say--"

"Oh, hurry up," interrupted Bee impatiently. "What's a button more or
less on such a glorious day as this? Come on, or I shall run a race
with my shadow."

"Catch me then." Adele darted away quickly. "If I beat I shall read your
letter first."

"Good-bye, dears," called Mrs. Raymond after them. "Don't let her beat
you, Bee."

"I won't, auntie," Beatrice paused long enough to say, and then sped
after her cousin.

There were ripples of sunshine all tangled over the bowers of apple
blooms, and dancing blithely over the mats of blue violets in the grass.
Gold belted honeybees hummed a song of contentment in every flowery
cluster. Gauze-winged dragon flies darted hither and thither, while
butterflies sailed by on new born wings of bronze, and scarlet and gold.
The wind laughed a gleeful accompaniment to the merry maidens who ran
gaily down the path o'ershadowed by the trees. Adele's graceful form was
in the lead, but Beatrice was gradually gaining upon her. At length, as
they were nearing the edge of the orchard, Bee gave an exultant shout
and passed her cousin, reaching the gate just ahead of her.

"Weren't you awfully afraid that I'd get to read that letter?" laughed
Adele as, flushed and panting, she leaned against the gate. "How fast
you do run, Bee! I am all out of breath."

"So am I," admitted Bee. "We will have time to rest for a moment before
going on to the office. Take off your hat, and you will soon be cool."
She swung her own back and forth by the strings as she spoke.

"I'm afraid of freckles," sighed her cousin.

"Gracious!" ejaculated Bee, quickly putting her hat on her head. "I had
forgotten all about freckles. How can you always remember, Adele?"

"Perhaps if you had to take the care of your skin that I do, you would
not forget either."

"But don't you ever get tired of it? I should think that you would want
to go bareheaded sometimes."

"I would, Bee; but I like to keep my skin nice too. One can't do both."

"Can't one?" asked Bee thoughtfully. "I should think that the skin would
need air and sunshine just like the flowers, and the butterflies, and
all other pretty growing things."

"Mamma always puts her lillies in the shade, doesn't she?" queried Adele
laughing. "It keeps them white, and that's the reason she tells me to
keep on my hat. Tan and freckles may be healthful, but they are not
pretty. At least she doesn't think so. Do you know the reason that I
always give Dolly Madison as my favorite character in history, Bee?"

"No. I have wondered about it. I should think you would prefer Queen
Elizabeth, or Joan of Arc, or somebody like them. I like women who do
things. Miss Rosa Bonheur, Miss Herschel, or Grace Darling suit me
better."

"Well, I like Dolly best because I sympathize with her. When she was a
little girl her mother cut holes in her sunbonnet, and tied her hair
through them so that she couldn't throw it off. She had a pretty skin
too, and her mother didn't want it to get tanned, or sun-burned. I
always think of what Dolly had to go through whenever I want to throw
off my hat, and it helps me to keep it on. I know just how she felt
about that everlasting bonnet. But after a while, you know, she became
the mistress of the White House."

Bee laughed outright.

"Is that the reason that you are taking such good care of your
complexion?" she asked teasingly. "I never thought it of you, Adele."

"Laugh if you want to," retorted Adele.

"Isn't Professor Lawrence always telling the boys that one of them may
be President of the United States some day, and that every one of them
is eligible? Now the President has to have a wife, doesn't he? Well, I
never could see why a girl mightn't look forward to being the Mistress
of the White House as well as a boy might expect to be President."

"If having a perfect complexion is one of the essentials toward becoming
the Mistress of the White House you are right in line for the position,"
said Bee wiping her eyes. "Never mind, Adele! I was just having a little
fun. Your skin is lovely, and I expect I would be just as careful as you
are if it were mine. I wonder how it would feel to be a beauty!"

"It's a great responsibility," declared Adele with a toss of her head.
"There is so much to live up to. If I am the least bit untidy some one
is sure to say: 'Such a pretty girl should always be neat and dainty.'
Or, 'beauty and dirt don't go together, my dear.' While you--you can be
as careless as you wish, and no one thinks anything about it."

"I am not so sure about that." Bee shook her head dubiously. "Aunt Annie
is always taking me to task for my untidiness. And there is much
demanded of me in other ways. If you are expected to be neat and dainty
at all times, I am urged to be industrious."

    "'How doth the little busy bee
    Improve each shining hour,
    And gather honey all the day
    From every opening flower!'"

quoted Adele in a sing-song tone. "Isn't that what the girls are always
saying, Bee? I never see you flying about the house helping mamma, or
running errands, or pouring over your books that I don't think of the
'Little busy bee.' Now I can't find time to do anything except to dress,
and to keep myself looking nice."

"Well, a butterfly is not expected to do anything but to fly in the sun,
and be happy," laughed Bee. "And you are like a golden and white
butterfly, Adele. Bees must make honey. They are too homely to do
anything else, while butterflies--"

"Speaking of butterflies," interrupted Adele quickly. "There is one just
about to light on your head."

"What kind is it?" queried Beatrice holding her head very still, and
speaking anxiously. "I hope it isn't a cabbage butterfly. I shouldn't
like to think that even a butterfly would take my head for a cabbage."

"It's yellow and black, Bee. Is that the cabbage butterfly? I don't know
as much about such things as you do."

"The cabbage butterfly is white. Has it settled yet?"

"Yes." Adele watched as a yellow and black Swallow Tail poised gently
upon Bee's head for a moment, and then flew away. "There! it's gone."

"That's a good omen," declared Bee turning toward the gate. "Whenever a
butterfly lights on your head it means favorable news from a distance.
There will be something good in father's letter, I know. Come, Adele!
lets hurry so that we can get it."

Adele straightened her hat a little, and then the two girls set off for
the postoffice.




Chapter III

The Good News

     "As cold waters to a thirsty soul, so is good news from a far
     country."

     --_Proverbs._


"Suppose there shouldn't be a letter," remarked Adele suggestively as
the cousins entered the postoffice. "What would you do?"

"But there will be," answered Bee confidently. "In all the years that he
has been away father has not failed to send me a letter once a month.
Even though it may not be an answer to my last, I'll get a letter."

She was not disappointed. There was a letter for her, and Adele received
one also.

"Let's hurry to the old elm tree so that we can read them," cried Adele.
"I wonder who mine's from? I didn't expect a letter."

Beatrice assented readily. The old elm tree stood by the side of the
road just outside the town and was a favorite resting place for
pedestrians. It did not take the girls long to reach the spot, so eager
were they to read their letters. Beatrice threw herself down on the
grass without ceremony, and tore open her epistle. Adele sank down with
a graceful and effective arrangement of her draperies. Before she had
quite completed the adjustment she was startled by an exclamation from
her cousin.

"What is it, Bee?" she asked, looking up curiously.

"He is coming home," cried Bee jumping up and dancing about wildly. "Oh,
my father is coming home!"

"Is he?" ejaculated Adele excitedly. "What does he say? Do be quiet,
Bee? Sit down and read me the letter, or let me read it."

"I'll read it to you," answered Bee, kissing the missive rapturously.
"I'll read it in a minute. Oh, oh, oh! I'm so happy I could fly."

She grew quiet presently, however, and seating herself again, began to
read:


     "Cairo, Egypt,
      May 16th, 19--.

     "My dear Little Daughter:--

     "When you receive this letter your father will be nearer to you
     than he has been for many a day. Child, I am coming home. Yes;
     after all these years I am returning to you. How long I shall
     remain is problematical, as I have not yet completed my
     investigation of the Lepidoptera of tropical countries.
     However, that is a matter that may be left to the future.

     "Another two years would have terminated my task, but such a
     longing has come to me to behold my little daughter who must
     now be almost a woman that I have dropped everything, and am
     coming to her as swiftly as steam can carry me.

     "No doubt you have often wondered that I should have left you,
     and the subject has been too painful to me to discuss; but now,
     you are old enough to understand my reasons. When your mother
     died she left a void in my life that nothing but the most
     engrossing occupation could make me forget. Change of scene was
     an absolute necessity for me; and so, when Union University
     wished to send an entomologist to study the habits of Moths and
     Butterflies of other countries, I was glad indeed when it was
     proposed that I should be the one to go. You were but five
     years old, and needed a woman's care more than mine, so I left
     you with your uncle's family. I still think it was the best
     thing I could have done.

     "I thought that it would be an easy matter to stay away for
     twelve, or even more years, but lately there have come to me
     sweet visions of a daughter's companionship, and Nature will no
     longer be denied. It is partly your letters which have wrought
     this change. They have been so bright, so clever, so amusing,
     that you must have a mind of unusual intelligence. I said
     'partly your letters'; for the receipt of your photograph
     completed what the letters had begun.

     "I can not resist the winsomeness of your picture, so I am
     coming back to get acquainted with you, and perhaps we shall
     discover a mutual companionship and affection.

     "Are you like your mother, I wonder, or do you take after me? I
     can not tell by your picture, but I think--No; I shall not tell
     you what I think until I see you.

     "So, little girl, get your aunt and uncle to go over to our
     house to open it up, and to make it habitable for living. If
     nothing happens I shall be with you on the evening of the
     Fifteenth of June. I am writing Henry, also, by this mail.

    "Hoping to see you soon, I am
    "Your most loving father,
    "William Raymond."

"He is coming," ended Bee with a little sob. "My own, own father."

"I am glad," spoke Adele, but her voice was weak as she said it. Into
her face had come a look of dismay as Bee read what her father had said
of the "winsomeness of the picture." An impulse came to her to confess
to her cousin what she had done, but she was fearful of what Bee might
say. She had not thought that it would have this effect. And so she sat
quieter than her wont while Bee gave vent to her delight.

"You don't know how I've felt at times, Adele," said Bee. "I've almost
envied you your father. When Uncle Henry has kissed you, and petted and
indulged you it hasn't seemed fair that I couldn't have my father. But I
never told you before, and I didn't tell any one. I knew father wouldn't
stay away unless he thought it was right, and I see now just why he did
it. I'll tell him that I don't blame him a bit. And we'll just love each
other all the more for being apart so long."

And so, with tears and laughter mingling together, Bee rejoiced. A
meadow lark flew, across the road, alighted on a twig and sang to them.
An oriole peeped at them saucily from his perch on a near-by tree, then
whistled playfully, "Sweet, do you hear? Sweet, sweet, do you hear?" And
Bee threw back her head caught his note, and answered joyfully, "I hear.
I hear. Sweet, sweet."

"How much Uncle William thinks of you, Bee," observed Adele presently.
"And he seems to be so pleased with your mind. Scientific people think
so much of intellect, don't they?"

"I wonder if they do?" mused Bee. "I don't believe that they are much
different from other people. And after all it is not my mind that is
bringing him home, but my picture. Oh, I wish that I had sent it long
ago."

Adele winced. "He'll find you awfully clever, Bee."

"You dear!" exclaimed Bee leaning forward to kiss her. "You are just as
sweet as you are pretty."

"Sue Ford said the other day that I was sweet because I did not have
sense enough to be anything else," observed Adele.

"The mean thing!" cried Bee. "Sue says lots of things, although I am
glad that she said what she did about father's not knowing me. If she
had not said that I would have thought that my picture was not good
enough to send, and father wouldn't be coming home. Still, I don't like
her saying that you have no sense."

"Oh, I don't mind," said Adele, biting a blade of grass meditatively.
After all, it did not matter so much about the picture. When her Uncle
William came she would tell them that she did it for fun, and they would
have a good laugh. Bee wouldn't mind at all when her father was really
with her. So, quite restored to her usual complacency, she continued; "I
know that I am not clever like you, or Sue, or some of the other girls;
and when I see how worried you get over your examinations I am glad that
I'm not. Bee, does Uncle William know that you have studied up
butterflies?"

"No; I was going to tell him when I answered this letter. I expect that
he will laugh at my specimens. Dear father!"

She lingered over the word as though she liked to say it. All at once
she rose with a little cry. "We must go home, Adele. Aunt Annie ought to
know about father at once, so that she can make the necessary
arrangements about going to Walnut Grove. To think of being in my own
home with my own father so soon!"

"Bee," said Adele slipping her arm through her cousin's as they walked
homeward, "will you let me wear your new hat Sunday?"

"Yes;" assented Bee abstractedly. She was accustomed to having Adele
wear her new things, though Adele did not wish to lend her own.

"And your bracelet?" went on Adele, seeing that Bee was too absorbed to
care what she promised.

"Anything you wish, Adele," answered Beatrice impatiently. "Only let's
hurry. Aunt Annie won't like it if we loiter too long after knowing
about father."

Adele complied willingly, and the rest of the distance was accomplished
quickly. Bee paused at the orchard gate.

"Listen how the birds are singing," she cried. "Do you suppose that they
know that father is coming?"

"You goosey!" laughed her cousin. "They were singing when we went out."

"Not like this, Adele. Just listen!"

A riot of happiness in quivering bursts of song came from the leafy
boughs of the trees. Cardinal, oriole, tawny thrush and gold-finch
seemed to vie with each other in pouring forth the sweetest melody.

"How happy they are," cried Bee. "Almost as happy as I am. And it was
just here that the butterfly lighted on my head. I'll always believe
that omen after this because I did have good news. Why, there is
auntie!"

"What news, children?" called Mrs. Raymond as she came through the trees
toward them.

"The best in the world," answered Beatrice waving her letter excitedly.
"Father is coming home! He will be here by the Fifteenth of June, and we
are to go over to our house to get things ready for him. Will you go?
Will Uncle Henry be able to leave court, and come too?"

"William coming home?" Mrs. Raymond stopped in her surprise. "Is it
possible? What does he say? Let me read the letter."

"Here it is," cried Bee handing it to her. "He is really coming. Oh,
aren't you glad, glad?"

"Indeed I am. For all our sakes, but most of all for yours. I have
thought for some time that it was his duty, and I am glad that he sees
it at last."

"Bee is awfully keen to leave us," spoke Adele reproachfully. "You will
have to live with your father now, Bee, and you won't be with me at
all."

"You won't lose me quite, Adele." Bee was surprised and touched by the
speech. It was not often that her cousin showed so much affection for
her as she had done that day. "The only difference will be that we won't
be in the same house. Walnut Grove is near enough to see each other
often. Won't we have good times together? I am so happy!"

"Henry will be pleased too," smiled her aunt. "I presume he has his
letter already. Bee, you will tire yourself if you keep capering about
so. You don't remember your father at all, do you?"

"Yes;" answered Bee with passionate intentness. "Of course, I know him
from his letters, and then I remember how he used to carry me. His eyes
are dark, but he doesn't look a bit like me. I know that he is handsome,
and distinguished, and oh, I'd know him anywhere!"

"Well, he is all that, but you must have heard us speak of it. You were
but five when he left, and could not possibly remember all those things.
We must go over to the Grove tomorrow, I think, to see what is to be
done. Henry can come when court adjourns. There won't be any too much
time to get everything in readiness. The house has been closed for so
long that there will be a great deal to do. Servants must be hired for
both house and grounds."

"I don't want any servants, auntie," protested her niece. "I want to
keep house for father myself. You know that he wanted me to learn, and I
want him to see how well I can do it."

"That is all very well, Beatrice, but you must have a strong capable
woman to help you," said Mrs. Raymond decidedly. "William Raymond is a
fastidious man, and there must be an experienced cook in the kitchen."

"How much you know about him," murmured Bee half enviously. "Tell me
everything you can, auntie."

"Come into the house then. We will have lunch, and devote the whole
afternoon to William. We could have no more delightful subject,"
declared the lady, willing for once to indulge Bee's insatiable desire
to hear all she could about her father. "I am quite sure that it will be
but a repetition of what I have already told you many times, but you
will listen with new interest today."




Chapter IV

A Jest Becomes Earnest

    "To mourn a mischief that is past and gone,
    Is the next way to draw new mischief on."

    --_Othello. Shakespeare._


"Dear, dear! will evening never come!" exclaimed Beatrice, pushing back
her hair impatiently and looking at the clock in the hall for the third
time in five minutes.

"Don't you know that the days are longer in June, Bee?" asked Adele in
mock surprise.

"Isn't there anything that you can do, Beatrice?" Mrs. Raymond glanced
up from her embroidery. "Occupation of some sort is the best remedy for
restlessness."

"Everything is done, auntie. I've even set the table for dinner, and
it's only five o'clock. Three long hours before he comes! What shall I
do?"

"It will take nearly all that time to dress," remarked Adele rising.

"How do you manage it, Adele? I need only fifteen minutes."

"Which explains your usual fly-away look," observed her aunt quietly.
"It would do no harm to expend more pains upon your toilet, Beatrice. A
girl cannot be too careful of her personal appearance. This evening of
all others you should desire to look your best."

"I do, auntie; so I will begin to get ready right now," replied Bee,
following her cousin out of the room.

It was the Fifteenth of June, and everything was in readiness for Doctor
Raymond's homecoming. He had always objected to a tenant in his home, so
the dwelling had been left in charge of caretakers. Each year, however,
Walnut Grove, as the old vine-clad house was called, had enjoyed a
thorough house-cleaning under Mrs. Raymond's supervision; but never
before had it undergone such a furious renovation. Paint and floors were
scoured; walls swept; beds shaken and sunned, and furniture polished.
The grounds, too, had received attention as the neat appearance of lawn
and garden could testify. The last day of waiting left nothing to do to
beguile the dragging hours.

Mrs. Raymond settled herself for a quiet time after the departure of the
girls, but she was not long left alone. Her calm was shortly broken by
the reappearance of her niece.

"I've been just as long as ever I could be," cried Bee, skimming lightly
across the room to the lady's side. "I've brushed my hair until the
roots are visible, and if there is a button unfastened anywhere about me
it would take a search warrant to find it. Will I do, auntie?"

Her aunt suppressed a smile, and looked at her critically. The girl was
looking unusually well. She wore a gown of shimmering white which clung
to her lithesome figure in soft folds. A single red rose nestled
caressingly in her hair and supplied the touch of color needful.
Excitement lent a flush to her cheek and an added lustre to her eye so
that she appeared animated and even brilliant.

"You never looked so well in your life, Bee," approved Mrs. Raymond.
"Why, you are almost beautiful."

"As if I could ever be that," laughed Bee, giving her a bearish hug and
a resounding kiss. "Although, if anything in the world could transform
me into a beauty it would be father's coming. There, Aunt Annie! I am
going to leave you in peace. I am going into the garden and walk to the
Arbor Vitae hedge. It will take five minutes to walk there, and five to
come back. If I do that six times one hour will be gone."

"Oh, youth! Impatient, restless youth!" ejaculated the lady as the girl
danced out of the room.

The sun sank to rest. The gorgeous hued clouds of sunset lost their
brilliancy under the approach of gray Twilight, and were folded upon the
breast of Evening. Low in the west hung the silvery crescent of the
young moon; and near, vieing with it in brightness, shone the soft
radiance of the evening star--first wanderer in the train of night. The
twilight shadows lengthened. The odorous breeze, scented with honeyed
clover and the perfume of roses, grew languid in its sweetness, and
presently died away. Great dusky moths drifted silently about the
half-closed flowers, and from the hedge sounded the plaintive notes of a
whip-poor-will.

"You will not have much longer to wait, Bee," comforted Mrs. Raymond,
coming out on the verandah where the girl had taken her stand. "I heard
the train quite a while ago, so they will soon be here. They are later
than Henry thought they would be. You are not nervous, are you?"

"No; that is, I don't know," answered Bee, her head bent in a listening
attitude. "Oh, auntie! What makes the minutes seem so long when one is
waiting for something good to happen? They go fast enough at other
times."

"It is one of those things that can't be explained, child," answered
Mrs. Raymond gravely. "You remember the old proverb: 'A watched pot
never boils'? But it won't be much longer. Try to possess your soul in
patience for just a short time. He will soon be here now. It grows dark,
doesn't it? The dinner will be quite late. Had we not better go inside?"

"You may, auntie, but I want to stay right here so as to get the first
glimpse of him."

"I think I will, Bee. The air seems damp, and I am beginning to feel
some of your nervousness. Adele is singing in the parlor. I think I'll
join her."

"Do," said Bee briefly.

The darkness grew denser, but Bee still lingered on the porch, her form
half hidden by the vines. Presently the sound of wheels was heard down
the drive, and she started forward eagerly, then paused overcome by a
sudden shyness. Mrs. Raymond hastened to the door, and stepped to the
girl's side.

"Come," she called as Beatrice shrank behind her.

A carriage came rapidly out of the darkness, and drew up before the
entrance. Before it had fairly stopped the door opened, and a man sprang
from it. Quickly he ran up the steps just as Adele appeared in the
doorway, the broad white light of the hall lamp shining about her yellow
hair like a halo, making her face with its beautiful eyes look like a
cameo in a golden setting.

"Welcome home, William," began Mrs. Raymond, but her brother-in-law
brushed by her with eyes only for the graceful figure beyond.

"My daughter! My dear little daughter!" he cried, clasping the
astonished girl in his arms.

"How beautiful you are! You are just as I pictured you."

"Oh!" burst from Bee in such heartbroken accents that Mrs. Raymond was
galvanized into action.

"William," she cried, laughing nervously, "you have made a mistake. That
is my daughter, Adele. Beatrice, come and welcome your father."

Beatrice came forward slowly. All the joy and sparkle had gone out of
her face, and in its misery it looked dull and heavy.

"Why, why," stammered Doctor Raymond, glancing from one girl to the
other, his disappointment written plainly upon his countenance. "I
thought, I certainly thought--"

"You thought that I was Bee, didn't you?" smiled Adele, gracefully
disengaging herself from his embrace. "It was a funny mistake, as we are
not a bit alike. Bee is so clever."

"Yes; I dare say." The entomologist was clearly bewildered by the
occurrence, and he greeted his own daughter awkwardly in consequence.
Bee received his caress passively, feeling with unerring intuition his
lack of warmth.

Mechanically she followed the others into the parlor, her anguish each
moment becoming more intolerable. She could not but remark how her
father's eyes were constantly straying toward Adele who was fairly
radiant. Bee had adored her cousin, and had been proud of her beauty;
but now, something closely resembling hatred crept into her heart.

Hoping that the cheer and conversation of the table would put matters
upon a more genial footing, Mrs. Raymond ushered them in to dinner. The
lady, as well as her husband, had been distressed by the incident, and
both viewed with anxiety Beatrice's constraint and coldness. The girl
was usually the gayest of the gay at table, and so light-hearted that
her aunt frequently reproved her for her levity, but now, fearful of
losing control of herself, she grew so frigid that there was no thawing
her out. The talk was chiefly among the grown people.

"What are your plans, William?" asked Henry Raymond.

"They are uncertain," replied Doctor Raymond. "I shall be here for the
summer at least. I have a great number of specimens to mount and to
catalogue, beside some work upon my new book. In fact, I have so much
on hand that I fear it will be very lonesome for Beatrice. Do you not
think, my child,--" with a conciliatory smile in Bee's direction, and
blundering into a second error as even the most learned of men, be they
lepidopterists or what not, sometimes will,--"do you not think that you
would better have your cousin with you for the summer?"

"No;" blurted out Bee, unable to trust herself to utter more than the
single word.

"Why, bless my soul!" ejaculated the scientist, turning an amazed glance
upon her. Mrs. Raymond interposed quickly:

"Beatrice is right, William. It has been long since she has seen you,
and you will naturally wish to spend as much time with her as possible.
I have already arranged for Adele to go to mother's for the summer. She
may come to you in the fall; if Beatrice wishes."

"Perhaps that will be better," acquiesced the traveller quietly. "And
now, as we are all here together, it may be the time and place for
explanations. I don't know whether one is due me, or to Beatrice; but I
do not understand how I received this in place of her picture. Can you
explain the mistake, my daughter?"

He drew Adele's photograph from the inside pocket of his coat as he
spoke, and handed it to Bee. She gave an exclamation of astonishment as
she saw the beautiful, laughing countenance on the cardboard instead of
her own. Then she raised her eyes, and gave Adele a long, steady look.
Adele had changed the photographs, and Bee knew that it had been done on
purpose. She saw that her cousin was a little frightened, and she
wondered what explanation she would make.

Adele was frightened. It had not occurred to her that the matter would
take on a serious aspect, and she feared to say that she had made the
exchange in fun. So she reached over and took the photograph from Bee
with a hand that trembled slightly.

"Why! It's my picture," she cried with a little hysterical giggle. "What
a mistake! I remember now they both came home together, and lay on the
desk in the library. They must have gotten mixed some way. It would have
been easy to change them."

"Why, so it would," agreed her mother with a relieved expression. "I
remember they were on the desk together. Bee must have picked up yours,
Adele, by mistake."

And Adele said not a word about its being her fault. She had no fear of
Bee's telling either. Her cousin had a boy's sense of honor about such
things, and unless she herself owned up, the matter would rest between
them. So she made no further comment on the subject, and the older
people, deeming the affair of no great importance since it was known
that a mistake had been made, resumed conversation.

Bee sat silent, her heart swelling almost to bursting. The words of her
father's letter rang in her brain: "It is partly your letters that have
wrought this change ... and partly your picture, which completed what
the letters had begun. I cannot resist its winsomeness."

       *       *       *       *       *

It was Adele's picture which had brought him home. He would not have
come had she sent her own. He had thought the beautiful girl was his
daughter, and he was disappointed because she was not. He wanted Adele.
Adele!

The dinner, on the whole not a successful meal, was over at last. The
older people were deep in conversation; the traveller narrating his
experiences, the others questioning and exclaiming. Bee had pictured
just such a scene, but always in fancy she sat close to her father's
side with her hand in his, or else his arm was thrown caressingly around
her. The reality was so different that it was more than she could bear.
Seeing that she was unobserved, she rose and stole quietly out of the
house.

The light breeze, breathing of the sweetness of honeysuckles and roses,
touched the tops of the walnut trees and dipped down to stir the cool
grass beneath them. Into the darkness of the grove went the unhappy
girl. When she had reached a place where she was out of sight and sound
of the house she threw herself down, and gave way to a passion of tears.

"It's not fair," she sobbed in angry resentment. "She has her father,
and her mother too; and now she has to take mine. Oh, I can't bear it! I
can't bear it!"

"Bee!" Adele had seen her cousin leave the house, and had followed her.

"Go away," cried Bee, sitting up and speaking vehemently. "Go away,
Adele Raymond! I hate you!"

"I don't see why you should," whimpered Adele. "I shouldn't think you
would care so much for such a little thing. I shouldn't mind it a bit,
if I were in your place."

"Yes, you would," blazed Bee. "If you had not seen your father since you
were a little girl, and when he came home he thought some one else was
you, you wouldn't like it a bit more than I do. Adele Raymond, you
changed those pictures on purpose."

"It was only in fun, Bee. Truly, I did not mean it any other way. I
never dreamed that your father would come back just because of it."

"But you did know that if he thought the picture was mine he would think
I was pretty. How could he help it? It would give him a wrong idea of
how I looked, and when he came he would be disappointed. You knew that.
And then you ran out just as soon as you heard the carriage."

"I didn't do that on purpose anyway, Bee. I was singing, you know, when
I heard the wheels, and I ran out without thinking."

"But I heard Aunt Annie tell you to wait in the parlor until I had
greeted father," went on Bee accusingly. "You ran right out to the door
where the light would fall on you, so that he could not help but see you
first. It was done on purpose. I know it was. I'll never trust you again
in anything."

"I didn't think," said Adele again. "I didn't know that he was going to
take me for his daughter, even though I did send him my picture. Anyway
you ought to be glad that I sent it. He would not have come if I
hadn't."

"That's just it," uttered Bee with a pitiful sob. "If it were just a
mistake of the moment I could get over it, even though that would be bad
enough. But it's knowing that he poured over your picture, thinking that
it was his daughter. It's knowing that he was glad that you were
beautiful when I am not. It's knowing that it was for you that he came
home, and not for me at all. Oh! he never will care for an ugly old
thing like me now."

"Yes, he will. Everybody likes you best when they know us both for a
time. Then your mind--"

"Bother the mind!" ejaculated the other girl fiercely. "Mind doesn't
count. It's only being pretty that counts, and you know it, Adele
Raymond. Doesn't everyone indulge you just because you are pretty? And
now my father--and he's the only father I've got, too--now he's just
like everybody else. Oh, I hate you!"

"I don't want you to hate me, Bee," cried Adele, her own tears beginning
to flow. "You never cared before that I was pretty."

"I wouldn't care now if father didn't--didn't--" Bee broke down
completely, unable to finish.

"Won't you be friends, Bee?" pleaded Adele.

"No; I won't," answered Bee with decision.

"And won't you let me stay with you this Summer? I don't like grandma's.
It's poky there." Adele never once mentioned Bee's telling who had
changed the pictures. She knew without asking that Bee would not.

"I don't want you here," replied Bee angrily. "You want to stay because
father admires you, but you shan't do it. I want him to myself, and I've
a right to have him. He's my father!"

"Please, Bee," coaxed Adele. Bee always gave in to her pleadings, and
she could not believe that she would not do so now.

"I am going to my room," announced Beatrice, rising. "And I don't want
to be followed there."

She walked abruptly away, leaving Adele weeping softly.




Chapter V

Protective Mimicry

    "Attempt the end, and never stand to doubt,
    Nothing's so hard but search will find it out."

    --_Herrick._


The next day Mr. and Mrs. Henry Raymond with Adele went home. For the
first time in their lives the girls took leave of each other with
coldness. The older people affected not to notice the lack of warmth in
their adieus, believing that time and absence would heal the breach
between them. Before their departure Mrs. Raymond had called her niece
to her for a little talk.

"Bee, dear," she said, "you don't know how sorry I am for what has
occurred. It was a most unfortunate mistake, but you must put all
thought of it out of your mind. Be your own bright self again."

"I want to be pretty, Aunt Annie," burst from Bee, whose eyes were
swollen and red from much weeping.

"That is nonsense, Beatrice," spoke her aunt sharply. "You cannot change
your looks. 'What can't be cured must be endured.' Your personal
appearance heretofore has caused you no concern, and there is no reason
that it should begin to trouble you now. Beauty is not everything.
Sometimes the plainest countenance becomes charming when stirred by the
emotions of a noble heart."

"Yes; I know," said Beatrice dully. "I know all that. I've heard it ever
since I can remember. My father would say the same thing, I dare say,
yet his eyes follow Adele constantly, and he scarcely looks at me.
People are always preaching how little beauty matters, and then they
turn round and show that it makes all the difference in the world. Take
Adele and me, Aunt Annie. Haven't I always had to stand back for her?
You know that I have. I have given up my prettiest things to her, and
been second in everything. But she shall not be first with my father.
She shall not," she repeated passionately.

"You do not realize what you are saying, Beatrice," said Mrs. Raymond
coldly, surprised and shocked by the girl's bitterness. It was such an
ordinary occurrence for Adele to be admired that she did not fully
grasp what it meant to her niece in the present instance. Then, too,
Beatrice had always seemed to join in the admiration of her cousin so
warmly that the lady was astonished at her feeling.

"I do not see why you should exhibit so much emotion over a simple
occurrence," she continued after a moment. "It was a thing that might
happen to anyone, and you are exaggerating the importance of it. Think
no more about it, but make yourself so lovable that no one will care
whether you are pretty or not. It lies in your power to win your
father's affection, but it can not be done by continuing in your present
frame of mind." And Bee found herself dismissed.

Soon afterward good-byes were said, and the girl's anguish increased as
she saw how reluctant her father seemed to bid Adele farewell. To the
young all things are tragic, and this which had befallen seemed nothing
short of a calamity to Bee. At length, however, they were gone, and then
Doctor Raymond turned to his daughter with a smile:

"Well, Beatrice, we are to have the house to ourselves, it appears. I
presume that you have some studies, or some way by which you can amuse
yourself for a few days. I shall be very busy for a time preparing
reports, and arranging my specimens for the university; after which I
shall be at liberty to make my little girl's acquaintance."

William Raymond did not mean to be cruel; but he was a scientist much
absorbed in his work. He did have a great deal before him. Perhaps too
he was not quite at ease with himself for the warmth which he had
discovered toward his niece; perhaps, too, there lurked in his heart a
faint feeling of disappointment that his daughter was not the lovely
girl who had left in place of this silent, sullen appearing maiden who
returned a passive:

"Very well, father."

Poor Bee! She had studied butterflies, her father's specialty, on
purpose to surprise him. She had thought that he would let her be with
him when he unpacked the rare specimens which he had obtained abroad,
and she had pictured the delightful chats they would enjoy together.

The reality was so different from the anticipation that her heart
swelled with the injustice of the thing, and she wept until the fountain
of her tears was dry. The housekeeping which was to have been her
pleasure served now to distract her mind. She threw herself into it with
so much fervor as to extort a remonstrance from Aunt Fannie, the old
colored woman who was the head factotum of the kitchen.

"You all jest a gwine to kill yerse'f," she said reprovingly. "'Tain't
no mannah ob use to scrub an' scour twel a fly can't stan' up nowhar.
Take hit easy, Miss Bee."

"It's all that I can do for father," responded Bee, and the old woman
was silenced.

So the days went by. Every morning she saw her father at breakfast, and
received his formal greeting as gracefully as she could. The meal over,
Doctor Raymond disappeared in his study to be seen no more until
evening. He was never a demonstrative man, and his reserve seemed like
indifference to his daughter. Beatrice pondered upon his unconcern until
she became possessed with the one idea that somehow, some way, she must
do something to attract his attention.

"It's all because I'm not pretty," thought the unhappy child one morning
when this state of things had gone on for a week. "I must do something
to make him like me; but what?"

Listlessly she took up her butterfly book and turned the pages idly. All
at once her eye was caught by these words:

"One of the most singular and interesting facts in the animal kingdom is
what has been styled mimicry. Certain colors and forms are possessed by
animals which adapt them to their surroundings in such wise that they
are in a greater or less degree secured from observation and attack....

"A good illustration of this fact is found in the Disipsus Butterfly,
which belongs to a group which is not especially protected, but is often
the prey of insect-eating creatures. This butterfly has assumed almost
the exact color and markings of the milkweed butterfly, which is
distasteful to birds, and hence enjoys peculiar freedom from the attacks
of enemies. Because this adaption of one form to another evidently
serves the purpose of defense this phenomenon has been called
'protective mimicry.'"

"'Protective mimicry,'" mused the girl thoughtfully, leaning back in her
chair and clasping her hands above her head. "That means if an animal
wishes to defend himself from another he just puts on the form of one
that his enemy doesn't like. 'Actor bugs,' Professor Lawrence calls
them. If that can be done why couldn't any creature put on any form he
liked? Wouldn't it be funny if a girl could change her appearance every
morning just like she does her dress? I could get up then looking just
like Adele. Why!--"

Bee sat up suddenly, startled by the idea which came to her.

"Beatrice Raymond," she cried, "you can do it. Why it's done every day.
Didn't Emma Drew come back from St. Louis with golden hair when she had
gone away with it black? Wasn't Mrs. Simpson's hair red, and then all at
once wasn't it black? And the girls are always doing things to their
complexions. Why, I can be just like Adele if I wish. Oh, why didn't I
think of it sooner? I've lost a whole week." And with that she jumped up
from the chair, went to the mirror, and surveyed herself critically:

"I could not change my eyes," she mused, "but I don't believe that would
matter. Adele's are sometimes so dark that they seem black. But oh
dear! My complexion is horrid, and my hair is so dark! They would have
to be changed. Now what is the way to do it?"

At this moment Bee was in need of tender guidance from an older woman.
She was a warm-hearted, loving, undisciplined girl; prone to do things
on the impulse of the moment which she would afterward deeply regret.
She had brooded over the indifference of her father and his apparent
preference for her cousin until the matter had assumed gigantic
proportions. Had it not been for the unfortunate change of photographs,
and her father's consequent mistake, the question of looks would never
have bothered her. As it was, the idea that if she could make herself
like Adele, her father could not help but love her, filled her mind to
the exclusion of anything else, and she thought of nothing save how the
thing could be accomplished. Presently she turned from the glass and
went down stairs to the kitchen.

"Aunt Fanny," she said to the negro woman, "do you know of anything that
would make my skin white?"

"Lawsie, chile! What am de mattah wid yer skin? Hit am good ernuff,"
answered Aunt Fanny.

"But do you?" persisted Bee. "Because if you do, and will tell me, I
will give you my string of yellow beads. Do you know anything?"

"'Cose I does, honey," answered the darkey, her eyes glistening at the
mention of the beads. "Habn't I larn'd all erbout yarbs?"

"Then please tell me," coaxed the girl.

"Yer want hit like Miss Adele's?" questioned the old woman shrewdly.

"Yes," answered Bee eagerly.

"All yer has ter do, Miss Bee, is to git jim'son--yer know jim'son weed,
honey?"

"Yes, yes," cried Bee impatiently. "Go on."

"Yer gits jim'son, an' makes a poultice ob de leabs. War dat ober night
on yer face, an' in de mawnin' yer'll be as fair as de lily ob de
valley. Miss Adele can't hole a candle to yer."

"Are you sure, Aunt Fanny?" questioned Bee gleefully.

"'Cose I'se sure. What'd I be tellin' yer fer ef I ain't sure?"

"And could you make my hair yellow like Adele's?"

"No'm; I cain't do dat. Dere's a worman down in de town kin, but I
cain't. No'm; I kin do mos' anything, I reckon, but dat."

"Do you mean Miss Harris, the hairdresser, Aunt Fanny?" asked Bee with
sudden enlightenment.

"Yes'um; she'll make yer hair yaller, er red, er anything yer wants
hit," returned Aunt Fanny pompously, proud to be able to give so much
information to her young mistress.

"Thank you, thank you," cried Bee, springing up joyfully. "I'll get the
beads now, and if everything comes out all right I'll give you something
nice."

She ran up to her room, and soon returned with the beads. Walnut Grove
was a few miles farther out on the turnpike than was her Uncle Henry's
place; consequently it was too far from the town to walk. Bee chafed at
the necessity of waiting until Joel could get the buggy ready, so
impatient was she to put her new idea into practice. It was brought
round at length, however, and soon she found herself entering the only
hair dressing shop that the little town afforded.

"What can I do for you, Miss Raymond?" asked the proprietress coming
forward.

"Miss Harris, can you change the color of the hair?" asked the girl
abruptly.

"Certainly," answered Miss Harris, evidently surprised by the query.
"Why?"

"Because I want you to change the color of mine," spoke Bee quickly.

Miss Harris hesitated.

"Does your father know of it, Miss Raymond?"

"Why! he wishes it," declared Bee with sincerity.

"Very well then. What color did you wish?"

"I want it sunny and yellow; with gold lights all through it," answered
Bee promptly. "Can you do it?"

"Yes, Miss Raymond; but your complexion--"

"I know," interrupted Bee. "It should be fair to go with it. Can you
help me about it?"

"No; I only do the hair. I don't know of any here who does treat the
skin. It's a small place, you know."

"Yes;" assented Bee. Silently she watched the deft movements of the
woman as she applied the bleach. It was done finally, and Bee found
herself the possessor of locks as yellow as her cousin's. She eyed the
result doubtfully.

"I like my own best," was her mental comment. "But if it pleases father
I don't mind."

"You understand," said Miss Harris as the girl prepared to depart, "the
application will have to be renewed as the hair grows. Otherwise it
would be dark at the roots while the ends would be yellow."

"Will it?" asked Bee in dismay. "I thought that this was all there was
to it."

"No. It takes time and patience to attain gold even in the hair." Miss
Harris laughed at her little joke. "Whenever it needs touching up, come
in and we'll soon fix you up."

"Thank you," said Beatrice as she left.

"It's going to take every cent of this month's allowance," she mused as
she stopped at a milliner's and ordered a white chip hat with purple
pansies for trimming sent home, "but it costs to be a beauty. One must
dress for it, Adele always says. I always liked her best when she wore
great big purple pansies on her hat. Now for the jimpson."

Jimpson weeds abounded by the roadside. Bee filled the bottom of the
buggy with them, and then drove home. Ignoring Joel's surprised looks
the girl reached the house without meeting any one else, and went
directly to her room.

"I won't go down to dinner," was her thought. "I'll burst upon father in
the morning like a new being. Won't he be surprised?"




Chapter VI

A Night of Misery

    "Man on the dubious waves of error tossed,
    His ship half foundered and his compass lost,
    Sees, far as human optics many command,
    A sleeping fog, and fancies it dry land:
    Spreads all his canvas, every sinew plies,
    Pants for it, aims at it, enters it, and dies."

    --_Truth. Cowper._


The night was warm, and Beatrice found her poultice exceedingly
uncomfortable. She had heaped the leaves on a clean cloth, mashed them
to a pulp, spread the mass between two other cloths through which were
cut small holes for the eyes and nostrils, and then, with a resolution
worthy of a better cause, bound the whole upon her face.

The juices of the crushed leaves soon wet the mask through and through,
making her face wet and sticky. The greenish odor of the weed was
sickening, and the poor child found her condition unpleasant to say the
least. She tossed restlessly from side to side in the vain effort to
find sleep, but slumber fled her call. The night wore on, and the mask
became so oppressive that it seemed to stifle her.

"I can not stand it," she exclaimed at last, springing out of bed. "I
can not! I shall smother."

She reached up to tear off the bandages that bound the suffocating thing
on, but paused in the act.

"I must not give up," she said aloud. "I should be sorry in the morning
if I did. I must stand it somehow, even though the night does seem as if
it would never end. I must bear it."

Fortified by this determination she drew a chair to the window and tried
to distract her thoughts by humming softly to herself.

"I know," she thought, tiring of this pastime. "I'll see if I can't make
up some poetry, and forget all about the horrid thing. If it were not
for father I would not stand it for a second. Let me see! I have it:

    "Bee was an ugly duckling,
      And Adele a princess fair;
    Bee's locks were black and heavy,
      Adele had yellow hair.

"Pshaw! That's sing-songy. I'll try again:

    "Adele's hair is sunny and golden,
      Mine is as black as sin;
    For there's nothing yellow about me
      Excepting my yellow skin.

"Dear, dear! It's most as hard to make rhymes as to be beautiful. How
long the night is!"

She arose and paced the floor restlessly. Eleven, then twelve o'clock
struck. In all her life she had never spent a night without sleep. A
first experience is very trying, and the hours seem interminable. At two
o'clock she was about as miserable as she could well be, and only the
thought of her father made her hold to her determination to stick it
out. Suddenly she remembered that she had left a book she was reading on
the library table.

"I'll go down and get it," she ejaculated, pleased with the distraction.
"If anything will make me forget myself it's the 'Woman in White.'"

Suiting the action to the word she lighted a small night lamp, and
glided softly down the stairs to the library. Turning the knob gently
she opened the door, stepped across the threshold, and then--It was a
wonder that she did not shriek aloud; for there in the room were two
men, one of whom held a bag into which the other was putting the
household silver which was piled on the table in front of them. They
wore slouch hats drawn well down over their faces, and were working by
the light of a dark lantern.

Beatrice entered so quietly that they did not notice her and for a
second she stood unobserved, too frightened to speak. Then something
made one of the men look up. A look of terror flashed into his eyes and
his face whitened. The other turned to see what his companion was doing,
but at sight of the figure that stood in the doorway he uttered a yell,
dropped the bag, and ran for the window.

"It's a sperrit, Bill," he cried wildly. "Come on, man!"

Bill needed no second bidding. He glanced once more at the startling
apparition and followed his comrade.

In truth Beatrice did present rather a ghostly appearance. She was clad
in a long white night gown; her yellow hair bushed in all its bleached
glory around the white mask through which her eyes gleamed with feverish
brilliancy. The greenish juice of the jimpson had permeated the cloth,
giving it just enough of a stain to be ghastly under the rays of the
lamp. As the men gained the window the girl, hardly conscious of what
she was doing, moved toward them. Uttering cries of fear the fellows
jumped through and made a dash for the road. Doors began to open and
close, and Bee knew that the household was aroused. It brought her to
her senses quickly. She had been so frightened that she had not fully
grasped the meaning of the scene through which she had just passed, but
now it flashed upon her that it was her beautifying mask that had
terrified the burglars.

"Father must not see me," she thought with an hysterical giggle. "I
should frighten him, too."

There was not a moment to lose, so setting her lamp upon the table she
crept under the couch and drew back as far as she could, just as her
father ran in, followed by Aunt Fanny, Joel her husband, and old Uncle
Billy, the gardener.

"Well, upon my word!" exclaimed Dr. Raymond. "It's burglars. See, here
is the silver. What made them leave it? Something scared them. What
could it have been?"

"'Twuz a hant," cried Aunt Fanny, ashy with terror. "Didn't you heah 'em
say 'twuz a hant?"

"It certainly sounded that way, but that is nonsense of course. Joel, do
you come with me, and we will search the grounds. Uncle Billy, go at
once to the stable and see if everything is all right there. Aunt Fanny
will look after the house."

"Lawsie, Massa doctah, yer ain't a gwine ter leab me heah, is yer?"
queried Aunt Fanny fearfully.

"Why, there is nothing to hurt you. Come on, Joel."

Dr. Raymond leaped through the window, followed by Joel, while Uncle
Billy left for the stable. Aunt Fanny, left alone, began to soliloquize
audibly:

"Hant, eh? I spec' hit's a hant. Dis house dun bin shet up too long fer
it not to be a hant. Dis heah chile ain't a gwine ter stay in no house
wid a hant. No, sah; she a gwine ter leab shore yer bo'n. She--"

"Aunt Fanny," spoke Bee in muffled tones.

"Good Lawd," cried Aunt Fanny, starting up. "Hit's the hant. Lawd, Lawd,
spar dis niggah! You doesn't want no ole worman like me. You--"

"Hush, Aunt Fanny! It's only Bee. Don't you know me?"

Beatrice crept out of her hiding place and arose to her feet. Aunt Fanny
gave a suppressed cry and sank back in her chair, staring at the girl in
open-eyed wonder.

"You, you ain't no Miss Bee," she gasped.

"Yes, I am. I just had my hair fixed at the hairdresser's this
afternoon, and I have on that jimpson poultice you told me about. I came
down stairs to get a book and frightened the robbers away. I want to go
upstairs now before father comes back so he won't see me."

"Yas; go on up stairs," said Aunt Fanny severely, now completely
reassured. "Yer pa mustn't see you like dat. He won't 'prove ob no sech
doin's, an' I doesn't eider. Yaller ha'r! Looks like flax! No'm; yer pa
oughtn't ter see yer."

"Then don't say a word about seeing me," cautioned Bee, turning to go.
"You won't, will you?"

"I ain't gwine ter say nuffin'. 'Tain't none ob my lookout ef yer wants
ter spile yer ha'r. I ain't gwine ter hab nuffin' ter do wid hit,"
returned the negress with dignity.

So, feeling very much like a culprit, Bee stole upstairs. Presently she
heard her father re-enter the house, and soon there came a rap on her
door.

"What is it?" she asked from under the cover which, girl like, she had
drawn over her as soon as she was safely in bed.

"Are you all right, Beatrice?" came her father's voice.

"Yes father."

"Don't be alarmed, but--" Dr. Raymond hesitated, evidently considering
whether it would be best to tell her about the intruders. "You are not
nervous, are you?"

"No----o;" answered Bee weakly. She was.

She would have liked to have somebody cuddle her for a time, but--there
was that awful mask.

"If you should be disturbed about anything, Beatrice, just call me. I
shall be in the next room, where I shall read for the remainder of the
night."

"Thank you, father," said the girl gratefully. "I was afraid, but I
won't be now."

"Then good night."

"Good night, father," replied the maiden who little guessed that her
father went away from her door wondering and perplexed that she did not
come out to speak with him, and to find what was the matter.

Her father's near presence brought so much of comfort to Bee's heart
that she found herself forgetting all about the discomfort of the
jimpson, and after a time she fell into a troubled sleep.




Chapter VII

The Result of Imitation

    "We are much bound to them that do succeed;
    But, in a more pathetic sense, are bound
    To such as fail."

    --_Jean Ingelow._


It was morning. The long night with its wretchedness and discomfort had
passed, and the bright sunshine full of cheer streamed into the room,
athwart the bed where Beatrice lay, her features still hidden under the
beautifying mask. She stirred uneasily and then opened her eyes.

"Why, it's morning," she exclaimed, jumping up briskly. "Thank goodness,
I can take off this horrible thing at last. I ought to be fair as a lily
after all I've gone through. My, my how funny my face feels!" She untied
the fastenings with a sigh of relief, and threw off the poultice
thankfully.

"My skin is sticky and tight," she mused, passing one hand over her
face. "I won't look at myself until I am dressed, and then I can tell
just how I shall affect father. Let me see! I'll wear white. Adele looks
best in white. Fair people always do, I think."

True to her resolve she bathed and dressed without once approaching the
mirror. At length she was ready. She had no doubts as to the result.
Beatrice was possessed with a child's faith; still, her heart began to
beat quickly as she turned slowly and went toward the glass, keeping her
eyes downcast.

"It's just like a butterfly breaking out of the chrysalis," she told
herself nervously. "I have been an ugly grub for so long that I'm afraid
to try my new wings. Now, ready, Beatrice! One, two, three!--Look, and
see how beautiful you have become."

Smilingly she raised her eyes. The smile froze on her lips, and
consternation swept over her face. Her features were distorted and
swollen, and her skin was as yellow as saffron. With her dark eyes,
bleached hair, and white dress the effect was startling. For one long
moment the girl stared at her reflection, and then, as the full
realization of the transformation came home to her, she flung herself
upon the bed with a cry of anguish.

"It's no use," she wailed. "Everything is against me. I look worse than
ever. What shall I do? What shall I do?"

A knock sounded on the door just then, and Bee started up, fearing that
it was her father.

"Yes?" she called.

"Yer pa am a-waitin' fer yer, Miss Bee," came the voice of Aunt Fanny.
"He say de brek'fus am gittin' cole."

"Aunt Fanny, come here!" Beatrice opened the door and pulled the old
woman inside. "Look at my face! This comes from using that jimpson weed
poultice. Now what am I going to do?"

The negress gave a gasp at sight of the girl's face, and threw up her
hands in dismay.

"Lawsie, chile! How kum yer ter do sech a fool thing? A niggah dunno
nuffin' nohow. 'Sides, yer can't do hit in one night. Co'se not. Takes
two; mebbe three. I dunno."

"Then why did you tell me about it if you didn't know?" demanded Bee
indignantly. "You said that it would make me as fair as the lily of the
valley. Now, I've just ruined my face. Oh oh, oh!"

She began to cry weakly. Aunt Fanny smoothed her hair in an attempt at
consolation.

"I'se just a low-down niggah ter make yer cry so, Miss Bee," she said
remorsefully. "Dey does use jim'son in de Souf, but mebbe dey puts
sompin elsen wid hit. Nebber you mind. Aunt Fanny'll fin' sumpin ter fix
yer. Now go down ter yer pa. De brek'fus am gittin' cole, an' yer needs
hit hot."

"Go down?" cried Bee in perturbation. "I can't go down like this. You
go, and tell father I'm sick. Tell him I can't come. Oh! tell him
anything!"

"Beatrice," called her father at this moment from the foot of the
stairs, "is anything the matter? You were not at dinner last night. Are
you ill that you don't come to breakfast?"

"I reckon yer shorely in fer hit, Miss Bee," spoke Aunt Fanny
commiseratingly. "If yer sick he's gwine ter kum up anyhow. De bes'
thing is ter go right erlong, and get hit over wid. An' if he scolds
hard yer won't nebber forgib me."

"It is my own fault, Aunt Fanny," acknowledged the girl. "I ought to
have known better than to have done anything of the sort. Now I am in
for it, as you say. Yes; I'll go down. Father can't dislike me any more
than he does, so I might as well face him first as last." She rose as
she spoke and went to the door: "I am all right, father," she called.
"I'll be down in a minute."

It was more than a minute before she could pull herself together; then,
summoning all her fortitude, she went slowly down the stairs to the
dining room. Dr. Raymond turned at her entrance.

"Good morn--" he began in greeting, but stopped short as though he could
not believe the evidence of his eyes. "Beatrice Raymond, is that you?"
he demanded.

"Yes," returned Beatrice as steadily as she could. "It is I, father. Are
you ready for your coffee?"

"What is the meaning of this?" he asked sharply. "What have you been
doing to yourself?"

Something came into Bee's throat and choked her. A moment passed before
she could reply.

"I have been trying to make myself beautiful, but it did not work well,"
she said at last in a low tone.

"Beautiful!" exclaimed Doctor Raymond in disgust. "Is vanity also one of
your weaknesses? I begin to believe that you are a bundle of them. Only
a silly, vain girl would be guilty of such folly. I am sorely
disappointed in you, Beatrice."

Again Bee choked so that she could not speak, and her eyes swam with
tears. Had she so many follies? People used not to think she was such a
dreadful girl. They used to be fond of her, but everything was going
wrong lately. With hands that shook she silently poured her father's
coffee and handed it to him.

"How any girl," went on her father, seeing that she did not speak, "how
any girl should go deliberately to work to make such a fright of herself
as you have done is beyond my comprehension. I suppose that all girls
are more or less foolish about their complexions; but no girl of
refinement should bleach her hair. It is an abomination to every
self-respecting person. What caused you to do it?"

Beatrice's heart was very full. She had done it for his sake, but she
found it impossible to tell him. She had been content enough until he
had come, and was dissatisfied with her. His words hurt her cruelly.
Presently she found her voice:

"I was trying to look like Adele," she told him tearfully.

"You were?" Struck by something in her tone the scientist glanced at her
more closely. He saw that she was not eating anything, and that she was
trembling. His manner softened. Bee was aware of the change instantly,
and attributed it to the mention of her cousin. Her tears dried, and she
was shaken with sudden anger.

"Your cousin is a beautiful girl, Beatrice. She seems to be as lovely in
disposition as in person. I do not at all wonder that you desire to be
like her, but your manner of emulation has not been the most happy.
Perhaps I spoke too severely. We are all prone to error, and I should
not judge too harshly what, it seems, has been done from a worthy
motive. If you wish to be like Adele, strive to copy her character
rather than to imitate her outward appearance. Beauty of soul is the
thing that counts. Before a sweet disposition and a well informed mind
mere physical beauty palls."

"That is not true," burst from Beatrice; "and you know it."

"Beatrice Raymond, do you know to whom you are speaking?" The naturalist
dropped his knife and fork, and stared at his daughter in amazement.

"Yes, I do;" answered Bee, wrought up to such a pitch that she forgot
the respect and deference due her father. If the mere mention of her
cousin's name had such influence upon him, she would let him know how
she felt about it; so she continued wrathfully: "You and Aunt Annie, and
everybody, are fond of talking about the cultivation of the mind and
spirit being above beauty, but you don't practice what you preach. Look
at what you have been saying, and then think of how you have treated
me."

"Why, why," stammered Doctor Raymond, so surprised by this vehement
outburst that he scarcely knew what to say.

"You were away ten long, long years," went on Beatrice, almost beside
herself with passion; all her pent-up unhappiness clamoring for
utterance. "I was just crazy for you to come home. Other girls had their
fathers and I wanted mine too. When you wrote that you were coming I was
happy; as happy as a bird. You had written that you wished my mind
cultivated, and I studied hard to please you. I knew that you were a
learned man, and I wanted to be able to talk to you intelligently. You
wanted me to learn to be a good housekeeper, and that, too, I studied. I
have tried to do everything that you wished me to. You say that you are
disappointed in me. How do you think that I feel about you? You will
have nothing to say to me because I am not Adele. You wanted her for
your daughter, and you can't get over it because she isn't. In your last
letter to me you said that you thought that I must have a mind of
uncommon intelligence. Have I? You have not troubled to find out. What
kind of a disposition have I? You don't know. And why? Just because I
don't happen to be pretty. 'Sweet disposition and well informed mind'
are all very well to talk about, but when it comes right down to real
truth a girl might as well be dead if she isn't pretty."

"You are giving me a terrible arraignment, Beatrice," observed her
father gravely. "Really, I--"

"Isn't it all true?" demanded Bee with startling directness.

"I think that probably some of it is," admitted Doctor Raymond
guardedly. "The discussion of beauty and non-beauty we will not prolong
because we could come to no satisfactory conclusion on the matter. It is
an old, old question. Beauty undoubtedly has its influence upon us all;
chiefly, perhaps, because it at once attracts the attention. After all,
it is but a free gift of nature accorded to its possessor by accident.
It was not altogether Adele's beauty that caused me to claim her for my
daughter."

"But--" began Beatrice.

"Allow me the privilege of a word, my daughter. The unfortunate mistake
of the picture is largely responsible for this whole affair. I naturally
looked long and often at the photograph, supposing it to be yours.
Seeing her standing in the doorway I recognized the girl whom I supposed
was my daughter. Surely this explanation ought to excuse me, Beatrice?"

"But it was her picture that brought you home, father," wailed Bee
miserably. "You would never have come had it been really mine. Oh, that
is what I can't bear!"

"I seem unfortunate in choosing my words also," said the scientist,
stirring uneasily. "The letters first caused me to think of returning."

"But you would not have come if you had not believed that the beautiful
picture was of your daughter," persisted Bee. "I want the truth,
father."

"I am accustomed to speaking nothing else," answered Doctor Raymond
sternly. "All this is aside from the question."

"Is it?" asked the girl with some scorn. "I think not; but you needn't
answer, father. Explain your treatment of me after you found out your
mistake. What effort have you made to find out what kind of a daughter
you have? You hardly come near me. You were away for years, and now that
you are home at last you are further from me than ever because I did
have your letters; now I have nothing. I may be as brilliant as a
diamond, or as simple as a daisy, but you don't care to take the trouble
to find out."

"Well, I have been exceedingly busy," replied he lamely. "And you have
not----You see--" He did not wish to say that she had not presented a
very inviting side of her character to him. Beatrice did not know this,
so she did not wait for him to finish.

"Yes, I see, father," she said wearily. She was beginning to feel very
tired. The reaction of the unusual emotion was having its effect. "You
are just like everybody else. You talk of mind and disposition easily
enough, but you succumb to beauty at first sight. At school it was the
same. All of us were made to toe the mark except Adele. Nothing was ever
expected of her but to be beautiful. I did not care until you came, and
were disappointed in me. Then I tried protective mimicry, but it wasn't
successful."

Doctor Raymond glanced up quickly.

"What do you know about protective mimicry?" he asked.

"It's where one animal puts on the form of another animal to protect
itself from enemies," answered Bee. "I thought that if I could make
myself like Adele you would come to care for me."

"And was that what caused you to bleach your hair, and change your
complexion?"

"Yes, father. You would not notice me, so I just had to do something.
And now it's no use."

"I am not so sure about that." Doctor Raymond began to laugh. "You have
worked upon the principle held by some great men, Beatrice. Henry Ward
Beecher used to say: 'If you can't make people love you, make them hate
you. Anything is better than indifference.'"

"Oh, father!" cried the unhappy girl, bursting into tears. "Have I made
you hate me?"

"Nonsense! Of course not. I only meant--"

"A gen'man to see you, sah," announced Aunt Fanny at this inopportune
moment, and the entomologist was obliged to leave the room.




Chapter VIII

A Rift in the Clouds

                        "Through the open door
    A drowsy smell of flowers--gray heliotrope,
    And sweet white clover, and shy mignonette--Comes
    faintly in, and the silent chorus lends
    To the pervading symphony of peace."

    --_Among the Hills. Whittier._


Doctor Raymond's visitor proved to be a fellow naturalist who became so
interested in his host's rare specimens that he spent the entire day
examining them. Beatrice passed the time in her own room, loath to
subject herself to curious eyes.

Aunt Fanny came up after a time with a second lot of jimpson leaves
which she proceeded to make into a poultice despite the girl's
protestations.

"Yer mus', honey," insisted the negress. "I'se done been down ter Miss
Browne's, an' she say hit air de onliest thing ter do. She say hats
turn yaller 'fore deys bleached, an' hit's de same wid yer skin. Dis'll
be de las' time."

"It doesn't matter now, Aunt Fanny," said Bee miserably. "I was silly to
do anything, but I thought, I thought!--"

"Nebber min' what yer thunk, chile," consoled the old woman. "Hit am
jest like a gal: allers a wantin' sumpin' like sum udder gal. Now jest
put on dis, an' you-all will kum out all right."

Beatrice was too tired to expostulate further, and submitted once more
to the martyrdom of the poultice with little care as to the result. Her
heart was too heavy to take any further interest in such efforts; for
she believed that she had completely alienated her father, and she cared
for nothing else. The day came to an end at last, and night brought
surcease of sorrow, for she slept.

As Aunt Fanny had predicted, she found that her complexion had indeed
bleached out to its natural color by the next morning. Cheered in spite
of herself by this fact she went down to breakfast with lighter heart.
Doctor Raymond's pleased look showed that he marked the improvement in
her appearance, but he made no comment. Neither did he refer to the
conversation of the day before until the close of the meal. Then he
said:

"Beatrice, yesterday you said that I shut you out from me; that I did
not know you because I did not try to. I have not meant to be guilty of
such a thing, but there was enough of truth in your remarks to make me
feel that perhaps I have been somewhat negligent of you. You shall have
no further cause to accuse me of this; so, if you are willing, we will
drop all unpleasant things and make a new start. Part of each day I
shall be obliged to devote to my forthcoming book, and those hours I
must be alone. All the rest of the time, however, you may spend with
me."

"Oh, father!" cried Bee in surprise. "Do you mean that I am really to be
with you? Even when you are in the study arranging your specimens?"

"Just that, Beatrice. We will learn to know each other, and it may be
that we shall find that companionship to which, it seems, we both looked
forward. There is but one thing that I would ask of you: don't try to
be like any one else. Let me see you as you are."

"I can promise that easily," answered Beatrice cheerfully, her spirits
rising at the knowledge that she was in very truth to have his
companionship. "I really don't want to be like any one else. I'd rather
be just myself. And I don't like this yellow hair. I didn't know that it
wasn't refined to bleach it. One of the girls at school did it, and
while the rest of us laughed about it, we thought it looked nice. I
would rather have my own colored hair even though it is dark; but this
won't last, father. Miss Harris said that it would have to be touched up
every once in a while. Of course the ends will always be yellow, but
just as soon as it grows long enough I'll cut it off, and have my own
dark locks again."

"I am glad that it will not be permanent," remarked her father. "Let us
say no more about it. It does not look so bad as it might, and the mere
fact that you did not bleach it through vanity makes me more tolerant of
it. Now, my child, I am going for a walk over the grounds, and would
like your company."

Beatrice ran joyfully for her hat.

"He's giving me a chance," she whispered, scarcely able to control her
emotion. "I am glad, glad! I won't think a thing about Adele. I won't
mind my looks a bit, but just be so good that maybe, maybe--" She did
not finish her sentence, but squeezed her hands together rapturously.

"I have been too busy since my return to go over the place," said the
naturalist as they set forth. "Beginning with this morning we will go
over a portion of it daily until the entire place has been inspected.
Will it be too much of a walk for you to take the gardens and the
orchard today?"

"Why, no;" answered Bee quickly. "I am used to walking, father. We
always walked into town from Uncle Henry's, and to school too. Aunt
Annie thought it was good for us. Then I run about the fields quite a
little."

"Annie has followed my idea exactly," he commented approvingly. "There
is nothing so conducive to good health as outdoor exercise. Ah! here we
are at the gardens. They have been well kept; but, but--" He glanced
around the mass of blossom and vines knitting his brows in perplexity.
"The rose?" he said. "The one your mother planted. Can this be it?"

He stopped beside a large moss rose bush as he spoke. It was of sturdy
growth, completely covered with buds and blossoms of satiny white deeply
embowered in a soft greenery of moss.

"Yes; this is it, father," spoke Beatrice softly. "Uncle Henry had it
tended carefully because he knew that you would wish it. Is it not
beautiful? I think I love it best of all the roses." She bent over a
cluster to inhale its fragrance as she finished speaking.

"It has grown," he said musingly. "It was so small. I should not have
known it. I did not think to find so large a bush."

"You have been gone for years," she reminded him. "Have you forgotten,
father? A small plant would have time to become a large shrub."

"True;" he said. "True." He broke a half blown bud from the bush and
held it for a moment against his lips. "It was her favorite rose," he
said, putting it in the buttonhole of his coat.

The gravity of his face softened into tenderness, and his eyes were
misty as he leaned over the rose bush. Bee gazed at him longingly. The
impulse of her heart was to go to him, slip her hand in his, or to
nestle against him caressingly. Had she done so father and daughter must
have drawn very close to each other, but something--perhaps delicacy,
perhaps shyness, perhaps a certain awe in which she held him--restrained
her. Presently he straightened up, turned away from the bush with a
sigh, and walked on. Beatrice followed him silently, and the golden
opportunity was gone.

"I am hatching the larv? of the Thecla titus Fabricus from the eggs," he
said as they left the garden a little later, "I wish to get the proper
plants for them to feed upon."

"Then we must go to the woodland instead of the orchard," said Bee
quickly. "You will need the leaves of the wild cherry, or the wild plum.
I believe that the caterpillars of the Coral Hair-Streaks feed upon
them."

"How do you know?" questioned her father in astonishment.

"I studied butterflies, father," explained the girl. "You know 'tis your
specialty, and I wanted to be able to help you when you came home. I
don't remember many of the technical names though," she added honestly.
"That just happened to be one that I knew. See! there goes a Copper."

Every step through the clover displaced myriads of small butterflies
with wings of some shade of coppery-red or orange. Dappled fritillaries
and angle wings, blocked in red and black, often variegated by odd
dashes and spots of burnished silver or peacock eyes, crowded about the
spreading thistle blossoms, or perched contentedly upon the many
flowered umbrels of the milkweed.

"Then that is how you knew about protective mimicry?" asked he, after
commenting upon the butterfly pointed out by Bee.

"Yes." Beatrice laughed more gaily than she had for days as she noted
his pleased expression. "He likes it because I studied them," she told
herself gleefully.

"And that one passing yonder. The one with the zigzag flight, my
daughter. That is a Skipper, is it not?"

Beatrice turned a look of surprise upon him.

"Why, father! that is a Swallowtail," she cried. "How could you make
such a--" She broke into a laugh suddenly as she saw his eyes twinkle.
"You were just trying to see if I knew," she cried.

"I'm afraid that I shall have to admit it," he said. "Have you any
specimens?"

"A few, father. Some Swallowtails, some Brush-footed ones, a number of
Blues, Coppers and Hair-streaks."

"Why! you are quite a lepidopterist," exclaimed Doctor Raymond. "And the
eggs, the larv? and the chrysalids; do you have them too?"

The girl hung her head.

"N-no; I know one has to have those things as well as the butterflies to
study the science properly, but I have none. I think the butterflies are
beautiful. Just like flying flowers!"

"Ah! you are like all amateurs, Beatrice." Doctor Raymond shook his head
gravely. "They are taken by the beauty of the butterfly, and so confine
themselves to the imago state entirely. Whereas, to know the insect
thoroughly, one should study it from the egg through all its stages to
the perfected form. But you are not alone in it, my daughter. There are
many men of wealth who make collections of the butterfly, as they do of
gems and other things. They, too, care only for the perfected insect.
In your case, you are young, and may be taught the proper manner of
study. I am glad that you are interested in such things. It will afford
me great pleasure to continue your instruction in the subject this
summer. That is, if you would like it?"

"Like it?" cried Beatrice, looking up at him with unfeigned delight. "I
should love it."

"Then we will consider that matter settled," he said with approval.
"Here are some wild cherry trees. Be careful, child! There are some
wasps."

But Beatrice, intent upon making herself useful, rushed forward eagerly
and began stripping off the leaves from the low hanging limbs.

"Do you want some of the twigs, father? There is a fine branch here
filled with leaves."

"Yes; but let me cut it for you." Doctor Raymond drew out a clasp knife
and started to open it.

"I can get it quite easily, thank you, father," said Bee, bending the
bough which broke suddenly with a sharp snap, disturbing a wasp that had
just settled comfortably on one of the twigs. With an angry buzz the
insect darted at the girl's hand, and thrust its sting into the
offending member.

"Oh!" she uttered, letting the branch fall and clasping her hand
quickly.

"You are stung," cried Doctor Raymond. "Give me your hand. At once!"

He caught up some of the damp earth and clapped it on the wound, holding
the mud in place.

"Does it hurt so much now?" he asked after a moment, binding his
handkerchief closely about the hand.

Beatrice's eyes shone through her tears. He cared because she was hurt.
A warm glow suffused her being, and nestled comfortingly about her
heart. She looked up and smiled.

"Hurt?" she exclaimed. "Nonsense! what is an old yellow jacket but a bee
gone into athletics!"

An expression of pleased surprise shot athwart her father's face and his
chuckle gave way to a peal of laughter.

"That is neat, child," he said. "Very neat! I like your way of taking
this. You have the true spirit of a naturalist who accepts such
happenings as a matter of experience. Are you fearful or timid? Do you
get frightened easily?"

"I am not afraid of creeping things," answered Beatrice thoughtfully. "I
don't believe that I know about other things. There has never been much
to try me. At least, there never was anything until I saw those burglars
the other night. I was scared then."

"You saw those men?" ejaculated Doctor Raymond. "Where did you see
them?"

"I forgot that you did not know, father."

"But I wish to know. Tell me all about it, Beatrice."

"It was the first night that I wore that horrid poultice for my
complexion. I could not sleep, so I went down stairs to get a book from
the library, and when I opened the door there were the two burglars
putting the silver into a bag. I was so scared that I could not do
anything but look at them. When they saw me they took me for a ghost and
ran away. I did look scary, father; so, when I heard you coming, I hid
under the couch because I did not want you to see me. When Aunt Fanny
was left alone I came out and ran up to my room. Yes; I was frightened.
I shook like a leaf after it was all over, and I was glad that you were
going to be near me."

"I see, my daughter. There was reason for fear in that instance. Few
girls would have done so well. I have not spoken of the matter before
because I did not wish to alarm you, and I did not know that you knew of
their visit. However, they will hardly bother us again as the
authorities are keeping a sharp watch for them, and believe that they
will soon have them in custody. I shall take that room next yours for
mine permanently, I think. Perhaps you will feel a little safer to have
me there, and there is no one on that side of the hall with you. Is it
somewhat too remote for you? Come, child! It is time to get back and get
some soda on that sting."




Chapter IX

With the Butterflies

    "These be the pretty genis of the flowers,
    Daintily fed with honey and pure dew."

    --_Hood._


The windows of the study were thrown wide to the breeze which came cool
and fresh from the shrubberies laden with the odors of the garden. It
was a cozy, old-fashioned room, plainly furnished, but with that most
welcome adornment to lovers of letters--a multitude of books. A large,
open fireplace, surmounted by a high mantel-piece, took up nearly the
whole of one side of the room; before this was a writing table upon
which were scattered books, pamphlets, letters, scraps of manuscript,
blank paper, pens and inkstands; by no means primly arranged.

Three weeks had passed since Beatrice had taken her first walk with her
father. That walk had been followed by others until now she accompanied
him as a matter of course. Each day also she had gone to him for a time
to study butterflies, and recently she had begun to help him catalogue
his specimens. On this day father and daughter were in the study hard at
work.

"There, child," remarked Doctor Raymond, laying aside his manuscript. "I
think you have done enough for one day."

"I am not one bit tired," protested Bee eagerly. "I could work for hours
yet."

"You are a delightful helper, Beatrice," commented he smilingly. "You
are so willing and zealous; but for that very reason I must guard
against your enthusiasm carrying you too far."

Beatrice flushed with gratification. It seemed to her that her father
was really beginning to care for her. He had several times uttered words
of commendation, and she knew that he was pleased with her application
to study.

"If you wish you may go to the laboratory with me," continued her
father. "There are several butterflies that should come out of their
chrysalids today. You may be interested in seeing them. Then we will go
for a walk."

"I should like to see them," cried Bee rising. "Are they rare specimens,
father?"

"A few of them are. They are all European butterflies. The one specimen
in all my collection that I prize the most highly is the pupa of the
Teinopalpus imperialis--an Asiatic butterfly. It is found in the forests
of Sikkin, and also in Central China, but is very rare. In fact, if this
one of mine comes out all right it will be the only one of its kind in
any collection. I have retarded the development of the chrysalis by cold
until the present time. It is a magnificent butterfly, and I am
anxiously waiting its coming out. Then there will be something to see,
Beatrice. Still, while not so rare, these will be quite interesting, so
we will go to see them."

The laboratory which joined the study was a large room with glass on two
sides, fitted out with both a heating apparatus and a refrigerating
process. Cabinets with glass-covered drawers filled with butterflies in
all stages of development, from the egg to the perfect insect, lined one
side of the apartment. Another side was fitted with shelves which were
filled with drying ovens, breeding cages, field boxes, poison jars,
setting boards, and all the paraphernalia of a naturalist. Twigs,
branches of trees and leaves jutted out from artificial crevices on
some of which innumerable caterpillars were feeding; on others the
chrysalids had already formed, and hung awaiting the moment when they
should be released from their sleep.

It was not a room that many girls would enjoy, but to Beatrice Raymond
it was filled with charm. She was truly interested in the marvel of the
evolution of the butterfly, and through that interest had overcome her
natural repugnance to the caterpillar from which it came. Added to this
was the growing delight in her father's society. It is doubtful if
Doctor Raymond knew how much his daughter loved him, or if he returned
her affection in like degree. He was much absorbed in his work, and had
been without her for so many years that it was hardly to be expected
that among so many interests she would be first. He did, however,
delight in the girl's quick comprehension and her devotion to study.
Then, too, Beatrice saw that he turned to her more and more for help in
his work, and that he seemed to enjoy talking to her of his plans, and
she was content, believing truly that all this would lead to a deep and
abiding affection.

As they entered the laboratory several butterflies rose from some twigs,
circled about the room and settled upon the portion of glass where the
sun shone brightest.

"What children of the sun they are!" exclaimed the scientist, his face
lighting up with enthusiasm.

"Oh, father," cried Bee. "Here is a drop of blood. Could one of the
pretty things have hurt itself?"

"No, child; some lepidopterous insects always leave a drop of red fluid
when emerging from the pupa state. This is especially true of the
Vanessa urtica. Have you ever read of red rain, or the showers of blood
of antiquity?"

"Yes;" answered Beatrice, eager to show her knowledge. "Professor
Lawrence told us about it. He read some lines from Ovid, too. Let me
see. I know:

    "'With threatening signs the lowering skies were filled
    And sanguine drops from murky clouds distilled.'

"He said that Ovid referred to the shower of blood."

"Here you have the explanation of that phenomenon, Beatrice. It used to
be regarded as a prodigy that portended all sorts of evil, and whenever
it occurred people were alarmed, and referred all disasters to its
coming. It remained for the French philosopher, Peiresc, to give the
first satisfactory explanation of the phenomenon.

"In July, 1608, an extensive shower of blood took place at Aix in
France, which threw the people of that city into the utmost
consternation. Great drops of blood were plainly to be seen in the city
itself, upon the walls of the church yard, upon the city walls, and also
upon the walls of villages and hamlets for several miles around.
Naturalists said that this kind of rain was due to vapor drawn up out of
red earth which congealing, fell afterward in this form. This
explanation did not suit Peiresc, because he knew that such as are drawn
aloft by heat ascend without color; as for example--red roses, the
vapors of which are congealed into transparent water.

"In the meanwhile an accident happened that showed him the true cause of
the occurrence. Six months before he had shut up in a box a certain
worm, called palmer, which was nothing but a hairy caterpillar given the
name of palmer because it wandered everywhere. This one was unusually
large and of rare form. He had forgotten it, but one day, hearing a
buzzing in the box, he opened it, and found the worm turned into a
beautiful butterfly which presently flew away, leaving in the bottom of
the box a large, red drop. At the same time of the month that this
occurred an incredible number of butterflies were observed flying in the
air. He was therefore of the opinion that such kind of butterflies
resting upon the walls had there shed such drops of the same size and
bigness. Upon investigation he found that these drops were not found
upon housetops, nor upon round sides of stones which stuck out as would
have been the case if blood had fallen from the sky, but rather where
the stones were somewhat hollowed, and in holes where such small
creatures might shroud and nestle themselves. Moreover, the walls which
were spotted were not in the middle of towns, but such as bordered upon
the fields. Nor were they upon the highest places, but only upon those
of such moderate height as butterflies are wont to fly.

"After this whenever an event of this nature occurred scientists would
find that it always happened when the Vanessa urtica, or the Vanessa
polychloros species of butterfly were uncommonly plentiful in that
particular district where the phenomenon was observed."

"Why, how strange that is, father."

"Yes, it is rather remarkable; but many of the so-called prodigies of
ancient times are explainable through natural causes. In France, during
the thirteenth century, one of these rains occurred, and the people,
believing that evil could be averted in no other way, slew ten thousand
hapless Jews."

"And all because of a little butterfly," observed Bee musingly.

"Yes; all because of a little insect that Moore calls 'winged flowers,'
or 'flying gems.'"

"How pretty!" cried Bee. "And they are like flowers, aren't they?"

"Well, they are certainly like them in that each kind has its own season
for appearing in perfect bloom; and thus they decorate the landscape.
Now let us go for our walk. When I return I must chloroform these
specimens. They are rather fine."

"Do let the lovely things go until tomorrow," pleaded the girl. "Surely,
they should have a little while of life."

"There speaks the woman, Beatrice. That is the reason that there are so
few naturalists among the sex. Yet I would not have it otherwise. Yes;
they may have life until tomorrow since you wish it. Theirs is but a
brief span at best. Come, get your hat, my daughter! You have been in
the house too long today."




Chapter X

A Butterfly and a Boy

    "Out in the open country fields,
      With the green grass blowing merrily,
    The daisies nod and the dewdrop shine,
      And the sunbeams dance right cheerily.

    "A lassie and laddie come tripping along,
      Like the fair day smiling brightly;
    They pluck the flowers and they hum a song
      As they shake off the dewdrops lightly."

    --_Mary Aimee Goodman._


"Beatrice, do you see that butterfly on the verbena bed?" asked Doctor
Raymond one bright morning in July, as he and his daughter sat at work
in the study.

Beatrice glanced through the open window to the bed of verbenas, over
which hovered a large butterfly.

"It is beautiful!" she exclaimed looking with delight at the insect's
broad expanse of wing. "Wouldn't you call that an orange-red, father?
And see the white spots on the secondaries. What kind is it?"

"The Anosia Plexippus," answered her father. "You know it better perhaps
as The Monarch, or Milkweed Butterfly. It is a magnificent specimen. I
must have it for my collection. Where is my net, child?"

"Let me capture it for you, father," cried Beatrice, catching up her net
hastily. "I'll have it in a jiffy."

"Be careful not to bruise it, Beatrice," cautioned the scientist as she
vaulted lightly through the window.

The insect still hovered over the verbena blossoms, but as the girl drew
near it rose and sailed away. Doctor Raymond gave an amused laugh at her
discomfiture.

"Never you mind," cried Bee. "I'll get it yet. See if I don't;" and away
she sped in hot pursuit.

"It has extraordinary powers of flight; so, if it lands you anywhere
near the postoffice, just see if there is any mail," called her father
teasingly.

Across the garden, through the grove, over the hedge and out into the
road the butterfly flew with Beatrice following after.

"I just believe that it heard father," ejaculated she, as the coveted
insect winged its way in the direction of town. "I don't care, I'll
follow it, anyway."

The naturalist and his daughter in pursuit of insects had become a
common sight to the people of Louisiana, and so the bareheaded, flushed
maiden in breathless pursuit of a beautiful butterfly caused only a few
persons to look after her curiously. Onward went the butterfly. Just as
the town was reached it began to rise in its flight, and Beatrice
realized that it was her last chance, for it would soon be lost over the
housetops. She made an upward leap, and by a fortunate sweep of the net
succeeded in capturing the prize.

"Bravo!" exclaimed a voice, and she looked around in some confusion to
discover a boy gazing at her with admiring eyes. "I think that's pretty
good for a girl."

[Illustration: "I THINK THAT'S PRETTY GOOD FOR A GIRL."]

"Oh! indeed!" cried Bee heatedly. "Could you have done any better
yourself, even though you are a boy?"

"I don't know," replied the lad coolly. "I never wanted a butterfly bad
enough to try it."

"I don't believe that you ever even chased one in your life," said the
girl, staring at him scornfully. "You look a namby-pamby sort."

The boy's face flushed. He was all of thirteen years old, but despite
the fact was garbed in black velvet knickerbockers, a ruffled white
blouse, long black stockings with low, ribbon-tied shoes, and had a
silken sash knotted about his waist. Worst of all, to the girl's mind,
he wore his hair in curls which fell far down upon his shoulders.

"If you were a boy I'd fight you for that," cried the urchin angrily,
clenching his fists.

"Pooh!" sniffed Bee, turning up her nose. "I would not be afraid of such
a baby if I were six times a boy. Where's your mother?"

"She's home, asleep. What's yours thinking about that she lets you go
wild like this? My mother said, when she saw you running through the
fields one day, that she wondered what kind of a woman she could be to
let you go like that. Where is she?"

"She is dead," answered the girl in a low voice. "I think your mother is
horrid."

"She isn't. She's lovely. Everybody says so. I am sorry that yours is
dead. You can't help being rude, of course, if you have no mother. Who
looks after you?"

"Why, father, of course," answered Bee. "And I am not rude."

"What makes you run after butterflies and things, then?" demanded he
sternly. "I saw you one day, and you had a worm--a great, ugly worm--in
your hand."

Beatrice gave way to a burst of laughter.

"A worm?" cried she mirthfully. "Oh, you poor little thing! You don't
know anything, do you? That was not a worm. It was a caterpillar."

"Well; what's the difference?"

"A true worm never turns into an insect," she informed him. "It goes
creeping around through life, a worm and nothing more; while a
caterpillar changes at last into a beautiful butterfly, or moth. This
was a caterpillar once," she ended, raising the net with her captured
prize for his inspection.

"You are a strange girl," observed the boy. "I never knew one before who
cared about such things. Where did you learn it?"

"I get it from my father," responded she with pride. "He is Doctor
William Raymond, a noted lepidopterist. He has been all over the world
just to study butterflies. What does your father do?"

"Haven't got any." The boy thrust his hands into his pockets, and stared
at her cheerfully.

"Haven't you? I am so sorry. It must be dreadful to be without a
father," spoke Bee with genuine commiseration.

"Oh, I don't know. I guess from what I've heard that they are pretty
much of a nuisance. You see they always want to handle the cash, and my
mother and I would rather keep that in our own hands."

"I don't care to talk with you any longer," remarked Bee, turning away
from him. "You say such awful things. My father isn't a nuisance,
whatever yours may have been."

"Say! I didn't mean your father. I don't know anything about him. He may
be all right. I never knew a father who was a lepi--what do you call
'em? They may be different. Does he let you have the money?"

"Of course not," answered Bee indignantly. "He gives me an allowance
that I can spend as I please."

"That's all right. I think that is the proper thing," declared the lad,
anxious to propitiate her. "It wouldn't do for me, you know, because I'm
a man."

"A pretty poor sort of one," flashed the girl. She started to go back
into the road, intending to go on to the postoffice, when the boy called
imploringly:

"Don't go yet. I like you even if you do catch butterflies and worms.
Come over and see me; won't you?

"I don't visit boys," loftily. "Besides, I don't know where you live."

"We live in the big white house just beyond you," he told her in an
injured tone. "You people are so inhospitable. I thought Missouri folks
were nice to strangers. My mother feels bad about it. We have been here
a whole month, and you haven't even noticed that we lived next to you."

"We have not been home very long ourselves," explained Bee, touched by
the allusion to Missouri. "You see, my father has been away from me for
a long, long time, and we have been so busy getting acquainted with
each other that we have not paid much attention to other people. Perhaps
we will come over to see you. I'll ask him. I must go on now; so,
good-bye."

"I'll just go along with you," said the boy, swinging into step by her
side. "You see my pony lost a shoe, and I had to wait for him to be
shod, so I walked out here a ways when I saw you coming. I'll just take
you back in my cart. It is a long, hot walk."

"Will you?" asked Bee gratefully. It was a long distance, and after the
chase the butterfly had given her she was glad of the offer. "It is very
kind of you."

"Oh, that's all right," he said in an offhand manner. "I like to be
obliging to my friends; and we are going to be friends, you know."

"Are we?" asked Bee, laughing outright. "Why, how do you know that you
will care to be after you know me?"

"We've got to be," he replied. "We live next to each other, and it would
be so convenient. I made up my mind that we'd be friends when I first
saw you."

"But you said that I was rude," reminded Bee. "I shouldn't think that
you would want to be friends with a rude girl."

"You said a few things, too," he retorted, laughing. "Are you going in
here?" as Bee stopped before the postoffice. "Then I'll bring the cart
here. Be sure you wait."

He scampered away, and Bee entered the office. There was a letter for
her father, and the girl congratulated herself that the offer of the
ride would enable her to get it to him quickly. She was anxious, too, to
show him that she had succeeded with the butterfly. She had not long to
wait until her new-found acquaintance appeared with his pony and cart.

"This is not really my pony," the boy told her as he assisted her into
the cart. "The cart is mine, but my mother just hired the pony until she
could find one to suit. Though this one is pretty nice."

"Indeed it is," remarked Beatrice approvingly, as the little pony
started off at a brisk pace. "Why don't you get this one?"

"They won't sell," said the boy. "I can have it until the fellow to whom
it belongs comes home. He's away now."

"I see," said she. And thus chatting she soon reached home. "I thank
you very, very much," she said as she jumped out. "I do hope that we
shall be friends."

"And you didn't ask my name," reproached the urchin. "No; I shan't tell
you now. If you want to know, just come over. Good-bye!"

"Good-bye," she called after him. "I certainly shall come over to find
out. I want to know."

"So your chase led you to the office after all," laughed her father as
she ran into the study, taking the net and the letter from her at the
same time. "I had no idea that you would catch it. You have done well,
though I am sorry that you had such a long, hot, dusty walk."

"I did not walk back, father. We have a new neighbor in the white house,
and the boy brought me home in his pony cart." Bee sank into a chair and
began to fan herself, watching him as he carefully removed the butterfly
from the bag, and placed it in the poison jar. "Isn't it a beauty?"

"Yes;" replied Doctor Raymond, beginning the perusal of his letter. He
looked up suddenly. "Beatrice, I shall be obliged to leave you for a few
days. They wish to see me at the university. Would you rather go to
your Aunt Annie's than to stay here?"

"I would rather stay here, father," she answered promptly. "There is so
much to do."

"Just as you wish, my child. I'll ask Mrs. Jenkins to come over to be
with you nights. Then with the servants here I shall not be uneasy.
Don't do any cataloguing while I am away. A few days rest will do you
good. Now I must throw a few things into my grip if I expect to catch
the afternoon train. It is fortunate that you went for the mail."

"Let me pack your things for you, father," pleaded Bee. "I know exactly
what you will need. Aunt Annie says that I do nicely. I always did it
for her, and for Uncle Henry, too, sometimes."

"Very well, Beatrice. I have done those things so long for myself that
it will seem strange to have it done for me; but it will be none the
less pleasant for all that." And there was a very kindly light in the
look which he gave his daughter as she left the room.




Chapter XI

An Infant Prodigy

    "By the sweet power of music: therefore, the poet
    Did feign that Orpheus drew trees, stones and floods:
    Since naught so stockish, hard, and full of rage,
    But music for the time doth change his nature."

    --_Merchant of Venice. Shakespeare._


Lonely and distrait Bee wandered about the house the next day unable to
settle down to anything.

"What if father should go away again for ten years," she thought with
sudden dismay. "I don't believe that I could live. I could not stand it
without him now. What if he should!"

Troubled by this thought she sat down on the veranda steps, and leaned
listlessly against a post. For some time she sat there musing, but
presently was aroused from her meditations by the sound of music. Bee
raised her head and listened intently.

"I have heard that several times of late," she said, glad of the
diversion. "I wonder where it comes from? I am going to find out."

She rose, listened again to catch the strain, then began to walk in the
direction from whence it came. Through the garden and orchard, across
the fields to the arbor vit? hedge which separated their land from their
neighbor's she went, the music becoming more and more distinct.
Beethoven's Romance in G was being played, although Bee did not know
what it was, and the musician was executing it with wonderful technique.

Always susceptible to the influence of music the girl stood spellbound.
Presently the performance stopped abruptly, and a sweet voice--sweet
despite a certain querulous note in it--said sharply:

"Percival, that last was entirely too fast. What would Heinrich say to
you?"

"I don't give a cent what he'd say," retorted a boyish voice petulantly.
"I'm tired of practicing. I want to have some fun. I guess I'm a boy as
well as a violinist."

"Don't be silly, Percival. Of course you are. Now practice just one
hour more, and we will see about that pony this afternoon."

"You said that yesterday," returned the boy's voice sulkily, "but you
didn't do a thing about it."

"I will today, dear, sure. I was too tired yesterday."

"Honor bright?"

"Yes; honor bright."

"All right. If you don't attend to it today I won't touch this old
violin again this summer. So there!"

Beatrice was an unwilling listener to the foregoing dialogue. Not
wishing that her presence should be unknown, and curious as to the
identity of the musician, she drew aside some branches of the arbor vit?
hedge, and looked through.

The boy of the knickerbockers and long curls stood under a large tree,
his chin resting upon a violin which he held in his left hand, while
with his right he tapped restlessly upon his shoe with the bow. A rack
upon which were some sheets of music stood before him.

"Oh!" exclaimed Bee in surprise as she saw who the musician was.

The lad heard her and ran to the opening eagerly.

"It's the funny girl!" he called joyfully. "Mamma, see! It's the
butterfly girl. Come on, Butterfly; come on over."

"May I?" asked Beatrice, turning to his mother. "I would like to hear
the little boy play."

"By all means," said the lady graciously. "Percival does better when he
has an audience. Are you Doctor Raymond's daughter?"

"Yes;" answered Beatrice, availing herself of the permission to enter
the garden. "I am Beatrice Raymond."

"Percival said that he had met you," continued the lady. "He has been
watching you for some weeks, and wishing that he could make your
acquaintance."

"Why don't you tell her our names?" broke in the boy excitedly. "That's
what she has come for. I told her yesterday that she would have to come
over to find out, and she can't know us unless we tell her what to call
us. I am Percival Medulla, and this is Mrs. Medulla. 'Course that isn't
our real name, but when you're before the public you have to be called
something high sounding."

"Percival!" cried his mother, provoked.

"Isn't it true?" demanded Percival in matter of fact tones.

"The truth when it refers to private matters is not always to be
spoken," reproved Mrs. Medulla. "Miss Beatrice, (she pronounced Bee's
name after the Italian manner), he is to play one hour longer. I know
that I can depend upon you to keep him at his task. You show that you
are trustworthy. Percival, be very nice to your friend," and she swept
into the house.

So, much to the girl's wonder, she was left as mentor to the boy
musician. He looked at her quizzically as he saw her dismay, and began
to laugh.

"I am glad that she is gone," he remarked. "I want to have you all to
myself."

"Hush, hush!" implored Beatrice, shocked. "You must not speak of your
mother that way."

"Mustn't one? Not even when she bores one?"

"No; no, indeed!" replied the girl earnestly. "Now do practice. There's
a good little boy!"

"How old are you?" he asked abruptly.

"Fifteen. Why?"

"Well, don't you call me little boy any more. I am thirteen."

"You don't look it," remarked Bee with a critical glance at him. "I
thought you were not more than ten. Your--"

"Yes; my clothes," interrupted he, frowning darkly. "I just hate them!"

"What makes you wear them then?" asked she, surprised.

"Because I am an Infant Prodigy. Grown people think that I am more of a
genius if I dress like a silly. If I wore clothes like a decent boy they
wouldn't come to hear me play. So I have to wear these things--" with a
gesture of disgust. "I've worn them for ages and ages. I suppose that
I'll die wearing them, and being an Infant Prodigy. And these curls! Do
you think a real fellow likes to go around like a girl? Well, I guess
not. Whenever old Heinrich, he's my tutor, says: 'We must have a new
Fauntleroy suit for de boy, madam,' I just wish Fauntleroy had never
been born."

"But he wasn't," spoke Bee. "He's just a character in a book, Percival."

"'Mounts to the same thing," answered Percival, "if I have to dress like
him. But just you wait. When I'm a little older, you'll see. Your hair
looks funny too," turning the subject suddenly. "What makes it so dark
at the roots, and so yellow everywhere else? Did you bleach it?"

"Yes;" said Bee humbly, her face flushing. "You see I have a cousin who
is very beautiful, and I wished to look like her, so I had my hair
bleached. I am sorry that I did it now, and I am letting it grow out.
Just as soon as it gets long enough to look well, I will have the yellow
part cut off. Now do play, or your mother will be sorry that I came."

"Oh, she knows that I will play an hour longer," said the Prodigy
easily, adjusting his violin. "I told her that I would, and I always do
what I say I will."

Beatrice made no reply, and the lad began to play some snatches of march
music which grew wilder and more barbarous, changing at last to a wild
mad waltz of wonderful rhythm. He was indeed a prodigy. His tone was
marvelously pure, his technique fluent and delicate. He touched the
secret feelings of the heart, and brought into play all the emotions.
The girl paled under the influence, and listened in rapturous silence.
Presently the boy stopped, turned toward her expectantly, and drew
himself up in a stiff, martial attitude. Beatrice gazed at him in
wonderment, her breath coming quickly through her parted lips.

"Well?" he said impatiently. "Hurry up, and let's have it over with."

"Hurry up?" echoed Bee, rousing herself. "Hurry up what?"

"The kissing, of course. Get it over with quick! I want to go on
playing. I'm in the mood."

"Go on playing then," cried Bee, a thread of indignation in her tone.
"I'm not going to kiss you."

"You're not?" The boy stared at her incredulously. "Why, you're a girl!
They all do it."

"Nonsense! I don't kiss boys."

"Not even if they are Infant Prodigies?"

"No; not even then," she returned. "I never heard of anything so absurd
in my life."

"You haven't, eh? Let me tell you that I have. Wait! you'll be as bad
as the rest of them."

He began to play again, watching her with curious half-shut eyes to note
the effect. Nocturnes, obligatos, and finally the wonderful music of
Chopin, followed in quick succession. The girl did not move, but sat
like one entranced. All at once he paused, and bent toward her with an
inviting smile.

"Now," he said in a winsome voice.

Bee did not stir, but gazed at him uncomprehendingly, too much absorbed
to realize what he meant.

"Now," he repeated commandingly.

The girl roused herself.

"Oh," she breathed. "Are you going to stop? I think the angels must play
like that!"

With an angry motion the lad thrust his bow into his left hand, and held
out his right toward her.

"See that hand?" he demanded. Bee looked at it in perplexity.

"Yes; why?"

"That's the hand that made that music."

"Yes, I know," she answered gently. "It's ever so much smaller than
mine, and whiter too." She held out her own slim brown hand and
compared the two.

"Aren't they little bits of fingers?" went on the Prodigy. "Who would
think that such little things could make such divine music? See the
dimples at the knuckles! Aren't they dear?"

"Don't," cried Bee in disgust. "I was entranced with the music, and now
you are spoiling it all by saying such foolish things."

"And don't you intend to kiss that hand?" ejaculated Percival in
astonishment.

"Of course not," answered Bee, rising. "I must go, Percival. Your
playing is marvelous, and I do hope that you will let me listen to you
again. Come over and see me. And I want you to meet my father. I wish
you would play for him."

"Well, you are a funny girl! If I had played like that before an
audience, the women and girls would have smothered me with kisses."

"I shouldn't think you would like it," exclaimed Bee.

"I wouldn't mind you," spoke Percival. "I wonder if it is because of
the butterflies that you are so different? Never mind! I'll fetch you
yet. See if I don't."

"Good-bye," called Bee with a laugh, and darted through the opening in
the hedge.




Chapter XII

The Arrival of Guests

    "The thistles show beyond the brook
      Dust on their down and bloom,
    And out of many a weed-grown nook
    The aster flowers look
      With eyes of tender gloom."

    --_W. D. Howells._


Master Percival returned Bee's visit the very next day.

"What did you do with that butterfly that you caught?" he asked as he
seated himself. "Why did you catch it anyway?"

"Father thought it an unusually fine one, and wished it for his
collection," replied Bee. "You cannot see it now because it is not ready
to set up yet, but I can show you some others, if you care to see them."

"I do care," he answered. "I never noticed those things until I saw you
catching them."

"You didn't?" asked Bee in surprise, as she led the way to the
laboratory. "How could you help noticing them?"

"I don't know. Maybe it's because I have not been in the country very
much. What makes you like them?"

"They are so beautiful, Percival, for one thing. Then my father likes
them. They are his specialty."

Percival gave a cry of delight as they entered the laboratory, and some
butterflies rose from the thistles upon which they were resting. Like
autumn leaves released from their moorings they floated about, brilliant
bits of color. Soaring, curving, dropping into the depths of the corners
of the room, the butterflies rose and fell, rose and circled higher,
higher, up to the very ceiling; then they came tumbling down among the
thistles, settling and unsettling themselves airily, noiselessly, making
their selection of resting places slowly and daintily.

"This is the very last one to burst its chrysalis," remarked Bee,
indicating a queenly Swallowtail whose flutterings denoted weakness.
"Soon it will circle about in its first flight. See the lustre of its
wings, Percival. Did you ever see anything more beautiful?"

"They are like flowers," cried the boy enthusiastically, all the artist
in him revelling in the beauty and daintiness of the insects. "Flying
flowers! They--Gee! Look at the worms!"

"They are not worms; they are caterpillars," explained Bee. "See how
they are feeding upon the leaves? When the time comes that they have
eaten enough they will spin a bed for themselves like this," showing him
a cocoon. "After a short sleep they burst forth into beautiful
butterflies."

"Do they feed on the different colored plants so as to have different
colors?" he queried.

"Why, Percival, that is a sweet fancy," she cried. "I never thought of
that. I'll ask father if that is what makes them the pretty colors. You
like them too, don't you?"

"I like the butterflies, but I don't like those creepy, crawly things
from which they come."

"That is the most beautiful part of it, father says," said Bee. "They
are humble, earth-bound creatures at first; then after a period of
preparation they become beautiful winged insects, basking in the
sunshine and sipping sweets from flowers."

"I like that part of it," said the boy again. "But those hairy things
give me the creeps. Let's get out of this."

So they adjourned to the veranda forthwith.

"Do you know, my mother said that she rather fancied you?" announced
Percival presently. "She said that you were very pleasant, and that such
a nice girl would be good for me to be with this summer. So I am to
cultivate your acquaintance."

"Indeed!" Beatrice laughed merrily, and then became grave. "Percival,
you are terrible," she said reprovingly. "You ought not to tell
everything that your mother says. I am quite sure that she would not
like it."

"She doesn't," he answered promptly, a sparkle of mischief in his eyes.
"But she can't help herself."

"Why can't she? She could punish you. That might do some good."

"I'd like to see anybody raise a hand to me," said the boy pompously,
reaching down and plucking a blade of grass which he bit into
nonchalantly. "They don't dare do it. You see, I am the head of the
family. I make all the money in concerts. If it were not for me mamma
and old Heinrich would not have a cent. So I do just as I please.
Sometimes," he laughed a malicious little laugh, "if I want anything
real bad I throw a fit just before the performance. My! My! but isn't
there some tall hustling then?"

He laughed again, but the girl regarded him with shocked, pained eyes.
Her disapproval was so evident that he moved about restlessly under her
glance.

"If my mother were living," spoke Bee slowly, "and I could provide for
her by playing, or in any other way, I would be so glad to have her that
I would do anything I could for her. And I would try not to cause her
pain by being naughty."

"Oh, I don't mind playing," confessed he. "I like to take care of my
mother, and she is all right. We are great friends, but she doesn't
always give me what I want. I have to get it someway."

"If I were she I wouldn't give in to you," spoke the girl severely. "If
she would not you would go on and play anyway when you found that you
could not have what you wished. Now wouldn't you?"

"I never thought about it just that way," observed the Prodigy
thoughtfully, "but--yes; I guess I would. You needn't go tell my mother
though. I'd have no end of trouble in getting the things I want, and old
Heinrich is bad enough now."

"I am not a tattletale," exclaimed Bee indignantly. "I don't repeat
things which I know people would rather I would not tell."

"You mean that for me, Beatrice Raymond," cried the boy rising. "I won't
trouble you by telling you anything more; that's certain. You may come
over to see my mother if you want to. I won't be at home to you. You are
entirely too dicta--dicta--" He struggled valiantly with the word for a
moment, then gave it up, and bowing stiffly, stalked majestically away.

Beatrice's impulse was to call him back and apologize. Then, as she saw
him give a quick backward glance at her, a light broke upon her mind,
and she coolly retreated into the house.

"The rogue! he is just too spoiled for anything," she laughed. "He did
that, thinking that I would run after him. Well, I won't. A little
judicious snubbing will do him good."

"Has Joel come back from town, Aunt Fanny?" she asked as she entered the
kitchen.

"Yes'm; he done kum back, Joel is. He brung a lettah from yer pa, I
'specs. Hit ain't from no lady nohow, an' no udder gem'mens gwine ter
write dat I knows anything erbout."

"Certainly it is from father," said Bee, breaking the seal eagerly.
"Although I might have a half dozen gem'mens writing to me for all you
know," she added, teasingly.

"No, yer ain't, honey. Dey may kum in time, but yer too 'voted ter yer
pa right now for hit."

And so she talked while Beatrice perused her letter. It was short, and
ran as follows:

     "My dear Daughter:

     "I am writing in haste to inform you that I shall be home
     Saturday morning, and shall bring with me four of the Faculty
     of the University. They are enthusiastic Lepidopterists, and I
     am sure that you will enjoy meeting with them. Now, my child,
     they will remain for dinner, and while you manage very nicely
     indeed with Aunt Fanny, I fear that this may tax your ability
     too far. Could you not get some capable person to assist you
     for the day?

     "I hope that you have not been very lonesome, and assuring you
     that it will afford me the greatest pleasure to be with you
     again, I am as ever,

     "Your affectionate father,

     "William Raymond."

Bee sat still for a long time gazing at the letter. Something about the
tone of it chilled her heart, and she could not but contrast it with
that other letter which also told of his homecoming. How full of love,
and tenderness, and longing, that had been; while this--Oh! would he
never, never care for her? Her eyes filled with a quick rush of tears.

"Am hit bad news, honey?" queried Aunt Fanny anxiously.

"No; no, indeed." Bee dashed away her tears, and tried to speak
cheerfully. "Father is coming home Saturday, and he will bring company
for dinner. There will be four scientific men with him, and he fears
that we shall not be able to manage by ourselves. What do you think?"

"Huh!" snorted the negress scornfully. "I'se cooked for more'n dat many.
Dey's nuffin but mens what ebber elsen dey is. I reckon dey feeds like
udder gem'mens if dey is satanic."

"Scientific, Aunt Fanny," corrected the girl with a quick transition
from melancholy to mirth. "Satanic means--"

"Nebber you min' what hit means, chile. I doesn't want no udder worman
a-trapesin' erbout my kitchen. You heah me? No'm; we'll manage, Miss
Bee. Jes' yer think what ter hab, an' I'll cook hit. We'll git ole
Rachel's Tillie ter wait on de table, an' dat's all de help we'll need.
She's a likely gal!"

"All right, Aunt Fanny. We will try it, and if we find that we are not
going to succeed we will get help. I'll think what to have, and we will
surprise father by giving a nice dinner."

Resolutely putting from her all thought of her father's coldness Bee
bent her whole energy to a study of a tempting menu for the dinner.

"When Aunt Annie was going to have company she always studied to please
them," she mused. "Some way her dinners always just suited the guests.
If I could have this dinner not only nice but distinctive, I should be
pleased. Father is susceptible to the influence of a good dinner. I
guess that all men are even if they are satanic." She laughed at the
recollection of Aunt Fanny's mistake, then concentrated her mind anew
upon the problem. Presently she jumped up, clapping her hands in glee.

"I have it! I have it!" she exclaimed joyfully. "They are
Lepidopterists. I'll give them a Butterfly dinner."

With a definite purpose in view she could proceed to better advantage.
Still, it took hours and a great deal of anxious thought to perfect her
plan. The next few days were busy ones, but when at length Saturday
came, everything was in readiness for the guests.

It was an exceedingly warm July day, and the old vine-covered house
presented an inviting appearance. The walnut trees cast a grateful shade
over the wide veranda, and along the broad drive that ran down to the
gate on either side of which were shrubs and plants. The windows were
open to the breeze and all the rooms were gay with flowers.

Beatrice herself was not the least charming part of the picture as she
stood waiting with a pretty air of dignity to receive her father's
guests. Doctor Raymond's eyes lighted up with pride as he noted the ease
with which she greeted them, and his tone held a caressing inflection
as he said:

"It is good to be home, Beatrice. I think the house never looked so
restful as it does today."

"And I am glad that you are back father," said Bee with some shyness,
for he had not kissed her. She did not think that this might be on
account of the presence of guests. "You must be very warm after being in
the sun. Will you take your friends to the library? It is cooler there,
and Aunt Fanny will serve lemonade immediately."

"That is the right kind of a daughter to have, doctor," exclaimed one of
the scientists with appreciation. "If going to the library means
lemonade, let us adjourn there instantly. I am as dry as a desert."




Chapter XIII

The Butterfly Dinner

                     "All human history attests
    That happiness for man--the hungry sinner--
    Since Eve ate apples, much depends on dinner."

    --_Byron._


The dining room at Walnut Grove was a place furnished with more regard
for comfort than for show. There was an air about the apartment that
seemed to say that eating here was not a busy matter but one to be
observed in peace and leisure. The furniture was solid, substantial,
comfortable; mellowed by time and use. Had Beatrice but known it she had
a charming setting for her dinner.

"It's only a bit of fun," she said to herself as she put the finishing
touches to the decorations. "If they are not old fogies they will enjoy
it. I don't see how anything can go wrong. Everything is planned so
carefully, and the table does look nice."

Nevertheless her heart beat somewhat faster as her father ushered in his
guests, giving a hasty glance at the table as they took their places.

[Illustration: BEE ENTERTAINS HER FATHER'S FRIENDS.]

"This seems to be a Butterfly dinner to judge from the decorations," he
observed with some anxiety in his manner. "I don't know exactly what
that portends, but perhaps there will be something to satisfy us."

"Our young hostess has evidently studied her subject," remarked one of
the scientists with an admiring glance at the table. "Do you know, Miss
Raymond, that when I was a lad sweet peas were always associated in my
mind with butterflies? To me they look just like the insect at rest."

"So they do to me," answered Bee. "That is the reason I chose them for
the flowers." She had filled a vase with the blossoms upon which two
large artificial butterflies rested, apparently partaking of the sweets
of the flowers.

"'The Sulphurs,'" read a second, picking up the menu card which Bee had
carefully written for each plate. "Gentlemen, I am afraid that we are
in for it."

"Miss Raymond intends for us to eat our own words--no; that is not
exactly what I mean, although some of us have written upon the subject
of Lepidoptera," said the third one, a small man in spectacles.

Beatrice could not repress a little laugh at the look of relief that
flashed across each man's face as Tillie, the "likely gal" of whom Aunt
Fanny had spoken, appeared with "The Sulphurs" which proved to be yellow
cantaloupes, ice cold.

"After all you are not the first martyrs to science," she told them
merrily. "Luther had to partake of a diet of worms, I believe."

"So he did," observed the scientist on her right. "Let me see. How does
the rhyme go?

    "'Instead of butter on his bread
    A sauce of butterflies was spread.'

"Are we to have that next? I see what is in store for us. 'All life is
from an egg,'" reading aloud from the menu. "That sounds interesting."

With an eagerness that was almost boyish they awaited Tillie's coming
with the next course which developed into egg soup accompanied by hot
wafers. A laugh of pure enjoyment went up as Scale insects with
chrysalids and some green hair streaks was seen to be baked fish with
shrimp salad, dressed with cucumbers.

An entree--"Scarce clouded yellows," mushrooms on toast--was provocative
of so much merriment that Bee gave herself up to the fun, assured that
the dinner was a success. Stiffness could not exist under such
conditions, and the grave scientists unbent from their dignity, and
jested and made merry like a lot of school-boys. There was admiration in
the look that Doctor Raymond bestowed upon his daughter as course
followed course, each bearing the name of a certain species of
butterfly, evolved from a resemblance of color or form to the viands.
The dessert, "The Arctics with Boisduval Marble," was ice cream frozen
in butterfly moulds and marble cake; while "Wooded Nymphs" were salted
almonds.

"Gentlemen," said one, rising as the last course--'The Mourning Cloak'
which meant black coffee--was served, "let us toast our hostess. This
has been one of the most ingenious as well as one of the most enjoyable
dinners I ever attended. It has the merit of originality, and puts to
blush the efforts of older but not wiser ladies. Doctor Raymond, I
congratulate you upon your daughter. You should be proud of her, sir."

Doctor Raymond bowed his acknowledgments, while Bee sat, so proud and
happy that she was almost overcome.

"I confess that I was a little dubious when I first saw that menu card,"
confessed her father with a smile as he finished his coffee.

"Do you mean that you did not aid her? That she did in truth plan this
alone?" exclaimed the shy gentleman in surprise. "Where then did she get
her knowledge of the subject?"

"Beatrice studied it while I was away," explained Doctor Raymond. "It
was done in order to help me in my work, I believe; and she has
certainly proved to be a very enthusiastic assistant. She is helping me
in my cataloguing this summer. Shall we go to the piazza, gentlemen?
There is just time for a cigar before your train."

They passed from the dining room, leaving Bee flushed and happy to
report their success to Aunt Fanny. Presently Joel came with the
carriage and the Lepidopterists took their departure. Doctor Raymond
laid his hand lightly upon his daughter's arm, and turned her toward
him.

"Was that entirely your own idea about the dinner?" he asked.

"Yes, father. Did you like it?"

"Very much indeed. It was admirably conceived, and most admirably
executed. Did you have no assistance beside Aunt Fanny?"

"Only Tillie," responded Bee. "Aunt Fanny didn't want any 'udder worman
traipesing erbout her kitchen.'" Bee laughed a little at the remembrance
of the negress' indignation. "She said that she could cook for men even
though they were 'satanic;' so I did the planning, and she did the
cooking. You must praise her too, father. I never could have done it
without her."

"I am glad to hear you say that, Beatrice. I was afraid that you might
take all the credit to yourself, but I see that you are willing to share
honors."

Beatrice drew closer to him. There were times when she would have dearly
loved to have thrown her arms about his neck as she had seen Adele do
with her father, but Doctor Raymond was not a demonstrative man, and she
stood too much in awe of him to take the initiative. Just at the present
she felt closer to him than she had done since his return. He was proud
of her and showed it plainly. He was coming to care for her, even though
she was not pretty. He had been right. Beauty did not matter after all.
Oh, she would be so good, so good, and study so hard that he could not
help but love her. She was so happy. His hand still lay on her arm as if
he liked it to be there. A mist came into her eyes, and a lump into her
throat that caused her to breathe quickly.

"Beatrice!"

"Yes, father?"

"Did you know that your Uncle Henry was very ill?"

"No; I am sorry to hear it. Are they at home?"

"Yes; they returned from Annie's mother's just as soon as Henry began to
feel bad. He must have the utmost quiet. Even I am not allowed to see
him. And, Beatrice--"

"Yes, father?" spoke Bee again.

"Adele must go away while he is so ill." Doctor Raymond spoke with some
hesitation. "Her mother wished her to stay with her grandmother, but she
is very unhappy at her separation from you, and she wishes to come here.
I wished to bring her with me today, but Annie insisted that you should
be consulted upon the matter first. You can have no objection, surely."

"Father!" Anguish and appeal were in Bee's voice. She turned from him
and covered her face with her hands.

"My daughter, are you still harboring resentment against your cousin on
account of my mistake? That would be unworthy of you."

"Don't," cried Bee, brokenly. "Don't, father!"

There was surprise and grave displeasure in Doctor Raymond's face. That
he was more than pained was evident. His daughter had never seemed so
womanly as she had that day, and now--he was perplexed. The man was more
acquainted with the ways of insects than he was with girls, and had Bee
been a butterfly rather than a most miserable girl he would have known
just what to do. As it was he stood in what seemed to Beatrice cold
disapproval.

"He wants her to come," she thought with a pang of bitterness. "And I
was so happy only a moment ago. Oh, if I could only have him to myself a
little longer, I wouldn't care. I know that I could win him to like me
best if I only had a little longer. She will spoil everything." She gave
a little sob.

Dr. Raymond gave an impatient movement.

"Beatrice," he said, "I confess that I do not see why this should cause
you so much grief. It distresses me very much. You should remember that
you shared your cousin's home for many years. It is ungracious to
hesitate for a moment."

"They were well paid for their care of me," flashed Beatrice with
passionate anger. "And they never allowed me to come between them and
Adele. Aunt Annie said that it was natural and right that Adele should
be first in her own home, and I agreed with her. I gave up in everything
to her when I was there. Now, I want to be first in my home. It is not
right for her to come here when I haven't had you for so long. Adele
only cares to come because you admire her. It isn't at all because she
cares for me. And she ought not to leave her father! Oh! it isn't--it
isn't--" She burst into tears, unable to finish.

There followed a long silence eloquent with the grief of the daughter,
and the unspoken censure of the father. Beatrice felt his disapproval,
and she could not bear it. At length, feeling that even Adele's presence
could be borne better than his displeasure, she lifted her tear-stained
face, and said in a trembling voice:

"Bring her when you wish, father, but, but--" She could say no more.

"That is my own daughter," he exclaimed approvingly. "That was a real
victory over unworthy feelings, Beatrice. And there is no cause for any
jealousy toward your cousin. Remember that, and conquer whatever of ill
feeling toward her may lurk in your breast."

"Yes, father," said Bee, trying not to sob.

"I can not bear it," she told herself as she went finally to her room.
"He wants her to come. He loves her best after all. And I meant to be so
good, so good! But it's no use. No use!"

And so what had been a happy day closed with unpleasantness and she went
to bed feeling that all her good times with her father were ended.




Chapter XIV

A Little Sermon

    "Beauty is truth, truth beauty,--that is all
    Ye know on earth, and all ye need to know."

    --_Keats._


"I shall go to Henry's today, Beatrice," Doctor Raymond informed his
daughter the next morning. "Adele will return with me."

"Very well, father," acquiesced Beatrice apathetically. She was pale,
with deep circles under her eyes, and looked as though she had not
slept.

"I am afraid that you worked too hard on that dinner," commented the
naturalist with solicitude. "Do you not feel well?"

"I am quite well, thank you, father," returned the girl gravely.

"I shall be glad when your cousin comes," remarked he. "I fear that I
have kept you too close to study this summer."

"No, no," denied Bee. "I am just tired, that is all."

What difference did it make to him whether she had worked too hard or
not, she asked herself with all the injustice of girlhood. Finding her
loath to converse her father relapsed into silence, and the breakfast
ended drearily.

Then he left, and Bee sat down on the verandah steps to face the
situation. It was over. All the delightful companionship, the long
walks, the cataloguing,--everything. She dropped her head into her
hands, and sobbed.

"Beatrice Raymond," said the voice of Percival, "what in the world is
the matter? I have called twice and you did not answer."

"I didn't hear you." Bee raised her head, and looked at him dully.

"Are you mad at me?" he queried.

"No."

"You didn't think that I would ever come over to see you again, did
you?" asked the Prodigy seating himself beside her with easy grace.

"I did not think anything about it," replied the girl shortly.

"You are cross," exclaimed Percival in aggrieved tones. "If you are not
mad, I don't see why you should be cross to me. Aren't you mad?"

"No, no," returned Bee impatiently. "See here, Percival! I am in
trouble. Won't you go away, and not bother me?"

The boy rose slowly.

"Of course, if I bother you, I'll go," he said with dignity. "If you are
in trouble you ought not to be left alone. Thinking is bad, my mother
says. Where is your father?"

"He has gone away," replied Bee briefly. "He won't be back until
tonight."

"Then I am not going," declared Percival firmly. "That is, not unless
you will go with me. Why can't you come over and stay with mamma and me,
Beatrice?"

"I don't want to," said Bee miserably. "I just want to be left alone."

"That is what I'm not going to do," declared the boy obstinately. "You
ought not to be, you know. I'll tell you what: come over, and let me
play to you. That will drive all your troubles away."

"If I go over for a little while to listen to you, will you let me come
home alone? I don't wish to be rude, Percival, but I am very unhappy."

"If you will come over for a time you may do anything you please," said
the lad earnestly. "I am sorry if I seem to bother, but when I am
troubled music puts everything all right. It's the same with mamma, and
with old Heinrich, and with lots of people. I just believe that it will
help you too, or I should not insist. Now, come, Butterfly."

"You are very nice to me, Percival," said Beatrice, touched. "Nicer than
you ought to be, because I have not been good to you this morning. But I
just can't be pleasant to any one."

"I know." The boy nodded his head sagaciously. "I feel that way too,
sometimes."

"And, Percival, you must not call me Butterfly. Butterflies are pretty
and only good-looking people should be called so. I have a cousin who is
very beautiful. We always called her that, but they call me Bee."

"And bees make honey, don't they? I like honey, and I like bees. I think
I like them better than I do butterflies. They have a sting, too, don't
they?"

"Yes," answered the girl.

"You have too. That is, you can say some sharp things. I think bee suits
you better than the other because you do things. I am going to call you
Beefly. Butterflies never do anything, do they?"

"They don't need to do anything," sighed Bee. "It's only homely insects
that need to work."

Percival made no answer, and silently they went through the orchard and
across the field, and through the hedge into the garden beyond. Mrs.
Medulla greeted them pleasantly, as they entered.

"Good morning, Beatrice," she said, noting the girl's paleness
instantly. "You have made quite a conquest of my son. He has never taken
so to a girl before."

"She's different," spoke Percival sententiously, adjusting the music on
the rack, and picking up his violin. "Other girls don't think of
anything but dresses and things to wear. She doesn't tag after a fellow
either. I like her. You must not talk any more, mamma. She is troubled,
and I'm going to play to make her feel better."

"Very well," said the lady, with a faint smile. "Sit here by me, my
dear," she added kindly to Beatrice.

The girl sank into a low chair by her side, comforted in spite of
herself by their kindness. Presently the young violinist began to play.
Beatrice listened perfunctorily at first, but pretty soon she found
herself caught, and held by his wonderful playing. On and on he played,
not watching her with challenging, curious eyes to note the effect as
before, but, like the true artist that he was, bending earnestly to the
task of bringing comfort and consolation to her heart.

It was Beethoven that touched her most. Under the influence of his
divine music Bee felt her heart strings relax, and as the mighty climax
of the last movement swelled into ecstacy, infinite as the human soul,
she burst into a flood of tears. At a glance from his mother Percival
stole softly into the house, while the lady drew the girl into her arms.

"There!" she said, smoothing her hair gently. "That will do you good, my
child."

Petting was what the girl needed, and soon her emotion spent itself.
When at last she was calm she looked up contritely.

"I should not have come over, and made so much trouble," she said.
"Forgive me, Mrs. Medulla; I will go home now. Thank you--"

"My dear," spoke the lady, drawing her back into her embrace, "suppose
you tell me all about it."

Beatrice looked at her quickly, but seeing the sympathy in the older
woman's eyes she broke out impulsively:

"I will. I will tell you the whole thing." Rapidly she poured forth all
her grief. Told of Adele's changing the pictures, of her father's return
and of his mistake in taking Adele for his daughter; of her cousin's
beauty, and of her efforts to be like her; of her studies with her
father; of the butterfly dinner, and of her belief that with time she
could win his love; and finally of Adele's coming; ending with, "If only
I were pretty my father would love me, I know. If only I were pretty!"

"That is a woman's cry, child," observed the lady thoughtfully. "The
desire for beauty is in every feminine heart. A pretty complexion, a
captivating dimple, bright eyes and flowing tresses are desired more
than all knowledge of books, or graces of the mind."

"I know," sighed the girl.

"Now, dear, you and I are going to have a little talk."

"Dear lady," spoke Bee in pleading tones, "don't, don't tell me that
'Handsome is that handsome does,' or that beauty of mind and soul will
cause others to forget that one is homely. Father says that too, but he
would not have come had he not thought that his daughter was a beautiful
girl."

"I am not going to say those things, child." Mrs. Medulla laughed. "I am
not fond of platitudes myself, although there is much truth in them.
Now, child, you feel hard toward your cousin for changing those
pictures, don't you?"

Bee compressed her lips, and her eyes flashed.

"Yes," she said in a low tone, "and I'll never forgive her. Never!"

"Wait a minute, dear. It was not a nice thing, nor a kind thing for her
to do, though I think it must have been pure girlish mischief. However,
we are not concerned with that part of it. Beatrice, when would your
father have come home had he not received the picture?"

"Why! not for two more years," cried Bee, a startled look flashing
across her face.

"Exactly. Then if the exchange had not been made you would not have had
the pleasure of your father's company at all this summer, would you?"

"N-no."

"Would you rather have him here now, even though such a mistake has been
made, than to wait two years longer to see him?"

"Yes, yes, yes," cried Bee with intensity. "Oh, I don't see now how I
could have borne to wait longer."

"Then, my dear, how about that feeling toward your cousin? Good has come
out of it, no matter how she meant it. If you will think of that part of
it, it will help you to feel toward her as you used to do, and you must
do that, my child, for your own sake. Now whenever any hard thought of
her comes, just think that she brought him back to you. It won't be easy
at first, my dear, but you can do it. We will let that be, and pass on
to other things. The case interests me very much, and I would like you
to be so successful in winning his love that there would be no one of
whom he would be so fond. Perhaps I can help you."

"If you will, I will do anything in the world for you," cried the girl
earnestly.

"I am satisfied that it can be done, Beatrice. You were on the way to
its accomplishment already. Your cousin's coming may make a slight
difference for a time, but it will only be temporary. You yourself are
liable to spoil everything."

"I?" Beatrice looked her surprise.

"Yes; you will see as I talk. Now, Beatrice, answer me one question: in
your studies you have always been first, have you not?"

"Yes. How did you know?"

"Never mind about that. Which did you enjoy most: gaining a high mark
without any competition, or getting one when others were striving for it
too?"

"I liked best when I had to work hard to get ahead of others."

"I thought so. Look at this from the same standpoint. Gain your father's
love in spite of your cousin's beauty, and his admiration for her. It
will be a greater triumph than to gain it when she is not with you."

"Yes; it would," acknowledged Bee, "but--"

"Your first mistake, my dear, for you are a little to blame for the
state of things," went on the lady, "was on that first night. You should
have laughed at the blunder as of no consequence. I can see how such a
course would be impossible to one of your temperament, for you are very
intense, and the thing seemed a little short of tragic to you. That is
past. Think no more of it. Your second mistake was in trying to make
yourself like your cousin. That was a confession of weakness."

"It was as the animals do to protect themselves from enemies," explained
Bee. "It is called protective mimicry."

"I don't know what it is called, child. Whatever it is, it is done only
by those animals that are incapable of caring for themselves. Now, my
dear, why don't you throw yourself into your father's arms, and tell him
all your troubles, just as you have me?"

"I wouldn't dare," said Bee in such a tone of reverence that the lady
broke into a musical peal of laughter. "You would understand if you
knew him, Mrs. Medulla. There is no one quite like him. He is so
learned, so reserved, so--"

"Tut, tut! He may be all that, but still he is a man. He may be just
waiting for some token of love and affection from you. Remember,
Beatrice, you know more of him than he does of you. You have been where
you could talk with your aunt and uncle about him, while he knows you
only by your letters. As you show yourself to him now, so he must judge
of you."

"I see," mused Bee thoughtfully.

"We are through with your mistakes, Beatrice. Did you know that you have
some claims to beauty yourself?"

"What?" gasped Bee, so amazed that Mrs. Medulla laughed again.

"Am I telling secrets?" she asked.

"But, but I am not fair. My hair is dark, and my eyes are almost black."

"There are more kinds of beauty than one, Beatrice. Yours is the kind
that will increase with years. The Ugly Duckling sort which develops
into a beautiful Swan."

"Is it true?" asked the girl breathlessly. "No one ever told me that
before. Aunt Annie used to say that my only claim to beauty lay in the
expressiveness of my face."

"And in that very expressiveness lies the difficulty. When you are
bright and happy you are at your best. Sparkle and animation give you a
charm that is more than beauty of skin, or regularity of feature. Grief
robs you of this; so, if for no other reason, you should strive to put
unhappiness from you. Women who have been considered great beauties have
not always had perfect features, or flawless complexions; but they held
sway by grace of manner, and that indefinable thing called charm. You
are of this class. I am telling you this, little girl, not to make you
vain, but to give you confidence. Do you know why no one has told you
this before?"

"No," replied Bee. "Why?"

"Because, while one feels it, there is a sort of carelessness in your
dress that detracts from your appearance."

Bee flushed scarlet, and put up her hand quickly to adjust her twisted
neck ribbon.

"I do just throw my things on," she murmured.

"A maiden should be exquisitely neat always. Even a scientific man will
be influenced by externals. Such a man might not be able to tell what
was wrong, but he would be conscious of some disturbing element. If you
are careless in your dress your father will unconsciously draw
comparisons between you and your cousin. No girl can afford to be dowdy
in appearance. She should make herself as neat and tidy as possible, and
then think no more of her dress. Just a few more remarks and I will have
finished my little sermon, if a talk on beauty may be called such. You
will not mind if I say now, that there is much, much truth in the homely
saying that you quoted: 'Handsome is that handsome does.' A winsome,
lovable personality is worth all the beauty in the world.

"It is a fact that the girl who thinks kind thoughts, and does good
deeds is a great deal more attractive than the one who thinks only of
herself. The face reflects the mind far more than girls realize, and as
a matter of looks alone a girl cannot afford to be other than sweet and
loving. Unselfishness, kindness, thoughtfulness, all help to make the
plainest face beautiful, and years will not detract from its charm."

She paused a moment, and then added:

"Not that I would decry loveliness of person child. It is a gift of
Heaven and should be valued as such, but that alone is not everything.
Cultivate exquisite neatness of person, and above all, be your own
bright self, and I feel sure that it will be but a short time until you
will be all in all to your father. And, child, when he looks at your
cousin, rise above any little hardness that you may feel toward her. He
looks at her as he would at some beautiful picture. It is the same
sensation, caused by the same appreciation of beauty. Do you do
likewise, and admire her with him. He will admit your good taste, and
end by admiring you. Put on your best dress for tonight, and make him as
proud of you as you did yesterday. You can do it."

"I _will_ do it," said Bee with determination. "I have been hateful
about the dinner. I have not ordered anything for tonight. Mrs. Medulla,
you are the sweetest woman that I have ever known."

"Don't be too grateful, Beatrice. Wait and see how things turn out. I
know that you will succeed. Come tell me about it tomorrow."

"I will." Beatrice tripped lightly away; no longer troubled and unhappy,
but full of the buoyancy of hope.




Chapter XV

The Arrival of Adele

    "If any loss thou hast to rue,
    Act as though thou wert born anew;
    Inquire the meaning of each day,
    What each day means, itself will say;
    Ne'er let thy breast with hate be supplied,
    And to God the future confide."

    --_Goethe._


There was a look of anxiety on Doctor Raymond's face as he drove up to
the house that evening. Adele's countenance, too, clouded as she glanced
about for her cousin, but no Bee was to be seen. The scientist assisted
his niece from the carriage, turned the vehicle over to Joel, and
started up the steps. All men dread scenes with their women folk, and he
was no exception to the rule.

"Tired, Adele?" he asked. "I dare say we will run across Beatrice in the
hall."

At this moment Bee came flying out. There was a flower in her hair, and
another at her belt. She looked cool and sweet as only a girl can when
she is exquisitely neat in every detail.

"I just heard you," she said brightly, giving Adele a kiss. "I was
helping Aunt Fanny with the table when I heard your voices. How is Uncle
Henry?"

"Better, Bee. Is dinner ready? I am so hungry."

"All ready," responded Bee. "Come right in. Leave your hat in the hall,
and we will go to the table at once. Are you hungry, too, father?"

"I believe that I am," rejoined Doctor Raymond, whose face had cleared
wonderfully during this conversation. "Have you repeated your success of
yesterday, Beatrice?"

"Adele is not a Lepidopterist, so I did not serve butterflies," laughed
Bee. "I am giving her chocolate ice cream, which is her favorite. Do you
like it too?"

"Yes, indeed. I have not had any in years. Are you a housekeeper also,
Adele?"

"No;" smiled Adele as they sat down to the table. "Mamma and Bee
wouldn't let me muss round. To tell the truth, I don't care much about
such things. My tastes are not all domestic. Bee was always crazy on the
subject. At least when she could spare time from her butterflies."

"Yet she does not strike me as being particularly on that order,"
remarked the scientist musingly. "How came you to take it up, Beatrice?"

"Why, you wrote Aunt Annie that you wished me to," answered Bee as
though that were sufficient reason.

"I believe that Bee would learn Hottentot if she thought it would please
you, Uncle William," added Adele graciously. She was well pleased that
Bee had welcomed her so cordially. "Now, papa is a lawyer, but I don't
know a thing about law. I couldn't tell an appeal from a--from a--What
do I want to say, Bee?"

"From a writ of habeas corpus," suggested Bee.

"Have you studied law also, Beatrice?" queried her father, glancing from
the beautiful face of his niece to the animated one of his daughter.

"No, father. I have heard Uncle Henry talking about his cases, and
picked up a few terms. I don't care for law as I do for science."

"What have you been doing to your hair, Bee?" broke in Adele, suddenly.
"I knew there was something odd about you, but I couldn't tell what it
was until this minute."

Bee's face flushed, but she answered good-naturedly:

"I struck for gold, Adele, but it didn't pan out the pure article."

"I didn't know that you cared about such things," observed Adele with an
involuntary touch to her own golden locks. "You always seemed superior
to such things. It would not look so bad if you would keep it touched
up. It's being so dark at the roots and yellow the rest of the way is
what makes it look queer. Why don't you have it bleached again?"

"Because it's silly," answered Beatrice tersely. "I was foolish to do it
in the first place, and now I shall wear it just as it is until it is
long enough to cut off all that horrid bleached part. It is a good
punishment for me."

"Several of the girls do it, but it does seem strange for you to do such
a thing. Aren't you most finished? I am dying to get to that piano. I
want to play for Uncle William."

"I am quite through," said Bee with a quick glance in her father's
direction, "and so is father. We will go into the parlor now."

With stately, old-fashioned courtesy Doctor Raymond rose and opened the
door for them. Engrossed in his own meditations the scientist had not
paid much attention to the chatter of the girls. Had it been otherwise
he might have absorbed a few facts concerning the species girl that
would have enlightened his understanding considerably.

"I am dreadfully out of practice," commented Adele, seating herself at
the instrument, and letting her hands flutter over the keys dreamily.
"Since papa has been so ill I have not touched the piano. What do you
like, Uncle William?"

"Anything, child," replied Doctor Raymond, seating himself in a large
arm chair and preparing to be comfortable. "I am fond of music of all
kinds. So let it be 'grave or gay, lively or severe,' it will please me.
Beatrice has not favored me with any music yet."

"I don't play," said Beatrice quietly. "You should hear Percival on the
violin, father. He is wonderful!"

"And who is Percival, Beatrice?"

"He is the son of our new neighbor, Mrs. Medulla," Bee informed him. "He
lives with his mother in the old Brawley place. He is an infant
prodigy."

"I don't care much for such precocity," observed the doctor dryly. "It
is usually exploited by long-legged chaps who seek to prolong the
illusion of the infantile period by knickerbockers and curls. I am not
speaking of your friend, Beatrice, but of the brood in general."

"But Percival _has_ curls, and he _does_ wear knickerbockers," spoke Bee
in dismay. "Though he told me, father, that he despised his clothes, and
that a real fellow did not like to wear such things. He really is a
marvel, and I am sure that Mrs. Medulla would like for us to call on
them. She has been very nice to me."

"Very well, my daughter. I suppose that we ought to be neighborly, but I
shall not have much time for visiting. Let us listen to your cousin now.
She is waiting for us."

Adele had at length settled herself to her satisfaction. She liked to
play. She was the center of all eyes at the piano, and she was
conscious that she looked her very best as, with eyes upturned, she sang
some old ballad in her sweet and plaintive little voice.

Doctor Raymond lighted a cigar. Bee brought his tobacco set and placed
it upon a small table by his chair. Then she sat down to listen. How
beautiful Adele was! Despite her good resolutions a pang went through
her heart as she noted her father's intense gaze of admiration. Adele
sang on and on. The room grew dark. Beatrice rose, attended to the
lights, trying to stifle the feeling of sadness that was stealing over
her.

"Isn't she pretty?" she asked of her father suddenly, bending over and
speaking wistfully.

"She is like an exquisite cameo," was the entomologist's enthusiastic
response. "I am glad that you admire her, Beatrice, though I do not see
how one could help it. Won't she tire herself?"

"I will see, father." Bee went to her cousin and touched her gently on
the shoulder.

"Aren't you tired, Adele?"

"I believe that I am," replied Adele, jumping up from the stool. "I saw
that Uncle William was interested and so I kept on."

This was scarcely true. She had played on because she saw that her uncle
enjoyed looking at her. In common with most beauties she was conscious
when she excited admiration.

"You sing very nicely, my dear," was the scientist's comment. For some
reason he appeared more at home with his niece than he did with his
daughter.

"Thank you, uncle," said Adele sweetly. "What are we to do tomorrow,
Bee? Let's go shopping. I want to get a new blue dress. Mamma said that
I could have one."

"I cannot go in the morning," replied Bee, whose mind was made up on
this point. With her mornings with her father she had resolved there
should be no interference. "I help father with his cataloguing then. I
will go in the afternoon, if you wish."

"Then what will become of me?" pouted Adele.

"You shall help us," said Doctor Raymond, pleasantly. "Tomorrow we take
up the life history of 'The Purple Emperor.' It is one of the most
charming of butterflies, and I am sure that you will enjoy it. Beauty
should be drawn by beautiful things," he added graciously.

"Why, of course I'll help," cried Adele, delighted by the compliment.

"There is one call, or errand of mercy rather, that I would like you
girls to make for me," remarked the scientist presently. "This morning
the minister told me that old Rachel was ailing. It would be a graceful
thing for you two to take her some delicacies of some sort. The old
appreciate such attentions. She was a faithful servant of your mother's,
Beatrice. Indeed, she attended her through her last illness."

"I know, father. Uncle Henry said that you wished her looked after, and
that she should not want for anything. He had me to go down to the cabin
every month to see what she needed. I have not been since your return
though. I thought perhaps you would prefer to attend to her yourself."

"I have been once, my daughter, but I can not go tomorrow. If you
girls--"

"Certainly we'll go," cried Adele before Bee could reply. "Let's wear
our gray dresses, Bee, and pretend that we are Sisters of Charity."

"You may wear a gray dress if you wish," remarked Bee. "I shall dress as
I always do. Father, don't you think that we ought to attend to that
before we go shopping?"

"Yes. Deeds of kindness should take precedence over all else. Now,
girls, I am going into the study to read for a time. I know that you two
must have a great deal to say to each other. Beatrice has had to be
content with just me a long time.

"Good-night, Uncle William!" Adele ran to him and put up her lips for a
kiss. "You are just horrid to run off to those old bugs and things. If
you run away too often, I'll throw them into the river."

Bee looked up horrified at her cousin's pertness.

"Good-night, you butterfly," responded Doctor Raymond, kissing his
niece, and seeming not at all dismayed by her threat. "Don't let me
catch you tampering with my bugs, as you call them. Good-night,
daughter!"

"Good-night, father," replied the girl without glancing at him. He had
laughed just as if he had enjoyed Adele's nonsense. He had not kissed
her since the first night of his homecoming, and her heart throbbed at
the thought of how easily Adele could get what she would have given
anything for.

Her father hesitated a moment, then, catching sight of her expression,
he crossed the room to her side, and putting his hand under her chin,
raised her face gently and looked into her eyes.

"Aren't you going to kiss me too?" he asked.

Bee's eyes filled, and she was unable to speak, as was always the case
when she was deeply moved. He waited, wondering at her silence, when all
at once he spoke with a quick intake of his breath:

"There is a look of your mother about you tonight, Beatrice. I never
noticed it before. Child, child,--"

He withdrew his hand from her chin, turned, and quitted the room
abruptly.

"What made him do that?" cried Adele. "Doesn't he like you yet, Bee?"

But Bee's eyes were shining through her tears.

"He said that I looked like my mother," she breathed. "Oh, Adele! Did
you hear him?"

"Well, what of it? I don't see anything so wonderful in that. Everyone
says that I am the perfect image of mamma. It would be natural for you
to look like your mother."

"But he loved her dearly, dearly," said Bee. "If he thinks that I am
like her he will love me too. He just _must_ like me," she broke forth.
"Why, Adele, I think I should die if he didn't."

"Oh, no; you wouldn't, Bee. I don't think you know how to manage him.
Now I can make him do anything I wish. I could show you a few little
tricks--"

"Thank you," answered Bee with dignity. "I don't want any more of your
tricks, Adele. One of them has caused quite enough mischief."

"But you have forgiven me that, Bee; haven't you? I saw that you had
just as soon as you kissed me."

"Adele," spoke Bee earnestly, "I am trying to do it. It brought father
back to me sooner than he would have come. For that reason I am going to
be toward you as I used to be, but I don't want to talk about it too
much. And I don't want any more of your tricks. That is, if you care to
have me like you."

"Beatrice Raymond, what has come to you?" asked Adele, her eyes opening
wide at her cousin's seriousness. "I never saw such a difference in any
one as there is in you since your father's return. Of course you are
going to be toward me just as you used to be. You always were fond of
me, and you are going to love me just as much as ever. What in the world
are you doing?"

Beatrice made no reply. They were in her room by this time, and Adele
was taking down her hair to brush it. Bee was leaning far out of a
window, looking toward the garden where the dim outline of the moss rose
bush, the rose her mother had planted, could be seen. There were no
roses now, but the bush stood shapely and symmetrical in the moonlight.

"He said that I looked like her," she mused thoughtfully, her heart
going out with yearning toward that mother who was scarcely more than a
memory to her. "And he loved her dearly, dearly!"




Chapter XVI

"It Is So Hard To Do the Right Thing"

    "Some of these days the skies will be brighter,
    Some of these days the burdens be lighter;
    Hearts will be happier, souls will be whiter,
            Some of these days,
            Some of these days."

    --_Frank L. Stanton._


"There, Beatrice, that will do for today." Doctor Raymond laid aside his
manuscript with a sigh of satisfaction. "The Purple Emperor is a fitting
close for our day's work. I think there is no place in Natural History
where rank is of so much importance as among butterflies. His Majesty is
easily king of the lot."

He picked up the Denton frame in which the insect was mounted, and
looked at it smilingly.

"I never see the Emperor," he continued reflectively, "that I do not
think of Peter Pindar's Ode to The Emperor of Morocco and Sir Joseph
Banks. Of course it is a hit at scientists, but it is amusing for all
that. Have either of you read it?"

"Yes;" spoke Bee eagerly. "At least, I have heard it read, father.
Professor Lawrence read it to the class one day."

Doctor Raymond frowned. Bee had not yet learned that there are occasions
when ignorance is bliss. No one likes to have either his anecdotes or
witticisms anticipated. She might have said with perfect sincerity:

"Yes, father; but I should like to hear it again."

"Well, I haven't heard it at all," said Adele prettily. "I am not so
learned as Bee."

"You will doubtless appreciate it then," spoke the naturalist, turning
to her with pleasure apparent in both voice and manner. "Would you care
to hear the lines?"

"Nothing would delight me so much, Uncle William."

How beautiful Adele looked with her golden hair; how delicate and pearly
was her lovely neck; what sweet eyes were hers, blue as a sky full of
sunshine. Doctor Raymond's glance dwelt upon her with admiration.

"What a lovely girl you are!" he exclaimed voluntarily. Adele colored
with pleasure.

"I did not think that you saw beauty in anything but your butterflies,"
she said archly.

"Indeed I do. I am very susceptible to beauty in any form. But surely
you also see beauty in this?" He handed her a frame in which was mounted
a gorgeous Scarlet Admiral. "Is not this strikingly beautiful? Note with
what a brilliant red the secondaries are bordered, and the velvety
blackness of the fore wings. It is among the last of our hibernating
butterflies to seek its winter quarters, and is most interesting in many
ways."

"It is beautiful," cried Adele with enthusiasm. "Oh! it just makes me
want to study butterflies too when I see such pretty ones."

"I do not wonder that the old Greeks used the butterfly as an emblem of
the soul," commented the Lepidopterist, well pleased with her
appreciation of the insect. "Even as the imago bursts from its chrysalis
and, throwing aside the bonds that held it a lowly creeping thing to
earth, mounts upward on gauzy wings, so the soul casts off its
earth-bound body at length and also mounts upward on wings of hope. The
symbol of the butterfly is found on all their tombs and monuments."

"It is a pretty thought," commented his niece sweetly, "but you don't
know how anxious I am to hear about Sir Joseph Banks and The Emperor."

"To be sure," ejaculated Doctor Raymond hastily. "I had forgotten."
Then, in a rich voice of no little charm, he recited the ode. Adele
laughed merrily as he finished.

"How can you bear to repeat anything like that when it is a take-off on
scientists?" she asked.

"We can appreciate humor even when it is at our expense, child. Now
let's go to lunch. You girls may then visit Rachel while I go into the
town. I must look after some matters of Henry's. I will join you as you
leave the woods coming back from Rachel's. On our way home we will call
upon our new neighbors. I am curious about that prodigy of whom Beatrice
was speaking. Then, too, I wish to see if they will be pleasant
acquaintances for you. If they are it would not be so lonesome for you
girls should I be called from home, as it sometimes happens that I am."

Bee sighed as they went to the dining room. He spoke exactly as though
Adele was always to be with them. She had felt a little out of things
that morning, and perhaps her manner held the slightest tinge of
asperity. Adele ran at once to the head of the table.

"I want to pour the coffee today, Bee," she cried, her white hands
fluttering among the cups like flower petals.

"No;" spoke Bee emphatically, pushing her to one side. "That is _my_
duty, Adele."

"Beatrice," exclaimed her father, "I am surprised. What difference does
it make? If your cousin wishes to pour the coffee, let her do so.
Remember, she is your guest." So he spoke, for no man ever understands
all that serving at her own table means to a woman, or girl child.

"I do remember, father. She is the one who forgets. As hostess this is
my place, and I will not give it up to any one."

"'Will not' are strong words, my daughter. What if I were to command
you?"

"Then I should have to obey you, father." The girl found herself
trembling with anger. "But you, sir, would be forgetting what was due
to your daughter."

"You are impertinent, Beatrice," he remarked coldly. "There are times
when your manner leaves much to be desired."

"I would just as soon sit here, Uncle William," broke in Adele. "It was
just a notion of mine. I didn't dream that Bee would care. It does not
matter in the least."

"Thank you, my dear." The doctor's eyes softened. He was displeased that
his daughter should exhibit such outbursts of temper, as she
occasionally gave way to, and his formality toward her during the meal
made his disapprobation quite apparent.

Bee was aware that she had placed herself in the wrong by losing her
temper, and her hands shook so that she could scarcely hold the cups.

"Oh, I wish I didn't act this way," she thought remorsefully. "It is so
hard to do the right thing when he shows his preference so plainly. Why
couldn't I have been nicer about this? It really is my place to sit
here, but I might have said so without getting mad. Oh, dear, dear!"

The lunch ended, and the girls went upstairs to get ready for the
outing. When Bee was nearly dressed Adele came to her softly. She could
not bear that anyone should not be pleased with her, and she knew that
Bee was hurt and offended. Stepping behind her she put her arms around
her waist as Bee stood before the mirror, and bent her head over her
cousin's shoulder, partly that she might kiss her cheek, partly also
that she might see her face in the glass and contrast it with that of
Bee.

"Don't be cross with me," she said coaxingly. "I am sorry if I have done
anything that you did not like."

Beatrice sighed. Adele was irresistible in this mood.

"Perhaps you did not mean it, Adele," she said. "But, honestly! would
you like it if someone were to come to your house, and want to take your
place with your father and mother?"

"No, I would not," answered Adele candidly. "What's the use of supposing
anything of the sort? Nobody could, you know. Papa and mamma would not
let them."

"That is true," agreed Bee thoughtfully. "Nobody could take your place,
Adele. I wish that father were so fond of me that no one could take my
place with him."

"Maybe he will when he knows you better," remarked Adele consolingly.
"Only you must not blame me if he likes me best." She loosened her hold
on Bee and wandered about the room, looking first at one thing, and then
another. Presently she gave a little scream of delight. "What a pretty
hat!" she cried. "All white lace and pansies. Oh, Bee! Where did you get
it?"

"I got it when I bleached my hair," said Bee in a low tone. "It is a
pretty hat. Every one likes it."

"It's lovely," declared Adele, putting it on, and gazing rapturously at
her image in the glass. "Doesn't it become me?"

"Everything becomes you, Adele, but this doesn't look any better on you
than your own." Bee reached out her hand for the hat. "We must hurry.
Father doesn't like to be kept waiting."

"Do let me wear it, Bee." Adele danced out of her cousin's reach. "Just
see how nice it looks on me."

"I want to wear it myself, Adele. I want to look well when we go to
Mrs. Medulla's."

"Don't be so selfish, Bee. You used not to be. You used to let me wear
anything of yours that I wanted. What in the world has come to you? It
doesn't make any difference what you wear."

"I don't think it's selfish for me to want to wear my own things,"
answered Bee with tears in her eyes. "You are not contented to let me
keep anything. You have just as many pretty things as I have; yet you
always want mine too."

"You are so superior to such things," remarked Adele, her lip quivering,
her face wearing the tiniest aggrieved expression. "Nobody thinks of
what you have on, but a poor little goosey like me has to be so careful.
I won't wear the hat, if you don't want me to; but I think you might let
me. You are getting awfully selfish."

Bee turned from her quickly and looked out of the window. Was she
selfish? It was true that formerly she had not minded letting Adele wear
her things. Why should she care now? A remembrance of Mrs. Medulla's
words came to her: "A winsome and lovable personality is worth all the
beauty in the world." After all, why should she permit a mere hat to
upset her temper, and spoil her afternoon?

"You may wear it, Adele," she said. "It does become you."

"You're a dear!" Adele ran to the glass to pin on the hat securely.
"What does a clever thing like you care about what you wear? You have a
mind above clothes."

"Yes; I dare say," remarked Bee abstractedly. "Are you ready to go down
now?"

Doctor Raymond was waiting for them, and they set forth. The air under
the great trees that bordered the road was balmy. The hot July sun
brought out the cool sweet smell of the leaves. Gleams of fire fell
through the boughs and dappled the soil at intervals. On these sunflakes
numerous fritillary butterflies with silver under wings were fluttering,
and countless flies were humming. Presently Adele darted aside with an
exclamation.

"It's a dead butterfly," she cried, holding the insect up to view. "It
was sitting so still on the thistle that I thought it was asleep. And
the poor little thing was dead all the time."

"It's shamming," said Doctor Raymond with a laugh. "That is one of the
tricks of The Painted Beauty. If we leave it alone for a few seconds we
shall find that it will come to life again."

He took the creature from her and laid it gently on the grass. They
waited, watching it curiously. All at once the apparently lifeless
butterfly began a slight vibration of its wings. Suddenly it rose and
was gone; as strong and free as ever.

Adele clapped her hands in delight, and Bee smiled. She was acquainted
with the butterfly, and had seen the trick before.

"I never saw anything so cunning in all my life," cried Adele. "Are all
butterflies as cute, Uncle William?"

"Not all; but the most of them have marvelous life histories. Come,
girls! we must not loiter. We have two calls to make, you know."




Chapter XVII

The Two Calls

                              "A thousand flowers,
    By the road-side and the borders of the brook,
    Nod gayly to each other; glossy leaves
    Are twinkling in the sun, as if the dew
    Were on them yet, and silver waters break
    Into small waves and sparkle as he comes."

    --_Summer Wind. Bryant._


"Thanky, honies, yer moughty good ter an ole worman. Thanky kindly." Old
Rachel beamed upon the two girls from the depths of a rocker, her black
face shining with delight at sight of all the good things they had
brought.

"Have you been sick long, Aunt Rachel?" asked Bee, putting jelly,
chicken, and other delicacies upon the only table the cabin afforded.

"Bress ye, chile! I ain't what yer call sick. Jest a-ailin' like. Dat's
all. I went ter my son's in Possum Holler fer a spell, an' I ain't been
right peart sence. But I'll be as spry as eber purty soon."

"Well, we will look after you until you are," spoke the girl gently.

"Yes, honey. I'll 'pend on you all ter look aftha me. I was moughty good
ter yer ma. She'd 'prove of yer lookin' aftah ole Rachel. 'Deed she
would." The old woman kept her eyes fixed on Adele as she talked. "Is
yer a fairy, er an angel, honey?" she asked.

"Neither," Adele laughed gaily. "I am just a common, everyday girl, Aunt
Rachel."

"No, honey. 'Scuse me. No common ebbery day ga lain't a-gwinge ter look
like yer. Does dey, Miss Bee?"

"No, indeed," answered Beatrice. "Now Aunt Rachel, I'll bring or send
you something every day, and father said to tell you that he was going
to have the doctor look in on you."

"Now ain't dat jest like yer pa? He don't fergit dat I was wid Mis'
Raymond in her las' sickness. Tell him I'm much obleeged ter him. He was
moughty fond ob yer ma; yer pa was, an' she was ob him too. Put a flower
ebbery day on his table when he'd go in ter study."

"Why, Aunt Rachel, you never told me that before," cried Bee.

"Didn't I? I fergit things, Miss Bee. She did dough. Yas'm. Sometime
hit 'ud be a rose, sometime a pansy; but allers a posy ob some kind 'ud
go on dat man's table ebbery mo'nin'. You kummin' ebbery day, Miss Bee?"

"Yes, Aunt Rachel."

"Den you kum too, honey." The negress appealed to Adele. "Lawsie, chile,
yer jest a sight for soah eyes. You am suah. Hit does me good jest ter
look at yer. You am de Lily ob de Valley, an' de Rose ob Sharon. You
suah am."

"Yes, yes, I'll come." Adele received this homage with laughing protest,
but she was none the less pleased because it was homely.

"Hit suahly will do me moah good dan de vittles," went on the negress.
"An' I ain't a-sayin' nuffin agin good eatin' eider."

"I'll come," promised Adele again. "I'll come every day."

"Bress yer heart, chile. Thanky, Miss Bee."

"Good-bye until tomorrow," said Beatrice kindly. "Be careful of
yourself, and if you need anything send to the house for it. We will
come to see how you are tomorrow."

"I won't need nuffin elsen but a sight ob dat bressed angel," declared
old Rachel as the girls bade her good-bye, and left the cabin.

Through the woods they went to the road where they found Doctor Raymond
waiting for them, and they started for the visit to Mrs. Medulla.

"How is old Rachel?" he asked.

"I did not think her very ill," remarked Adele. "Did you, Bee?"

"She said that she was just ailing," replied

Bee, "and that she would be all right in a few days. I thought she was a
little feverish. She took quite a fancy to Adele."

"I can well believe it," answered Doctor Raymond heartily. Each time he
saw the girl she seemed more lovely. Today in her white dress with Bee's
white lace hat upon her head, and her eyes velvety as the heart of a
purple pansy she looked the angel Aunt Rachel had called her.

"I wonder," thought Bee as they entered the gate of the Brawley place
where the Medullas lived, "I wonder if Percival and his mother will be
as much taken with Adele as every one else is?"

"Your daughter and I are friends already, Doctor Raymond," said Mrs.
Medulla, drawing Bee to her as she greeted them graciously.

"I am glad to hear it," observed the scientist courteously. "My daughter
is so unfortunate as to be obliged to devote a great part of her time to
me, and I have been away from civilization so long that I am scarcely
the companion for her. The influence of a woman of culture cannot fail
to be of great benefit to her."

"Thank you," replied the lady quietly. "And is this the cousin of whom
you have spoken, Beatrice?"

"Yes;" answered Bee, watching her intently to see if she too had fallen
a victim to Adele's beauty. The lady smiled at the girl's fixed gaze,
cognizant of what was passing in her mind. She was too well bred to
betray the astonishment she felt at Adele's wondrous loveliness, and she
was filled with a great commiseration for Beatrice.

Adele was at her best. She knew that she was beautiful, and accepted
homage as her right. She had grown to expect admiration and devotion as
her due. So she chatted brightly, or listened with pretty deference
whenever one of her elders spoke.

She knew that her uncle admired her. That he did so beyond his own
daughter did not seem at all unusual or amiss. Bee had always been
second. It seemed but natural to Adele that she should be second with
her father also. Bee's feelings on the subject were not considered. They
never had been. Mrs. Medulla turned suddenly from her, and laid her hand
lightly upon Beatrice's arm.

"I could scarcely keep Percival at home today," she said. "He insisted
that it was his duty to call to see how you were."

"I should have been glad to see him," responded Bee. "Where is he?"

"I hear him coming," replied the mother.

"My daughter tells me that he is a violinist," remarked the scientist.

"Yes; Percival plays well," returned his mother simply. "He was worn out
with his recitals last season, and we came here that he might have the
benefit of outdoor air and exercise. He practices every day in the
garden, and I think him much improved."

"Percival," as the boy entered the room, "do you see who has come?
Doctor Raymond, this is my son. Miss Adele, this is Percival."

"Gee!" whispered the boy to Beatrice after he had made his devoirs.
"That cousin of yours is pretty, Beefly, but I don't like her as much as
I do you."

"You don't?" Beatrice was plainly amazed. "Why not, Percival?"

"Because a girl like that never thinks of anything but herself," he
announced. "She couldn't be chums with me like you. I know 'em,"
concluded this experienced young man.

"How do you know?" asked Bee so delightedly that Mrs. Medulla glanced at
her with a smile, well pleased to see her so bright.

"Would it be asking too much to desire your son to play for us?"
inquired Adele sweetly. "We would like to be favored as well as Bee.
Wouldn't we, Uncle William?"

"Certainly," answered the naturalist as in duty bound.

"I will play one piece, and no more," said the lad, taking his violin
from the case and adjusting his music. "I am not in the mood, but
because of Butterfly I will play."

Adele glanced at him quickly, showing plainly that she thought he
alluded to her; but the boy's smile and nod toward Bee were
unmistakable.

"How funny that you should call Bee that?" she exclaimed.

"That is what she does," explained Percival. "Gee! I saw her catch one,
one day, and the jump she made with the net was a corker. Remember,
Butterfly--Beefly, I mean? It was the first day that we became friends,
though I had watched for a chance to speak for a long time. She is the
nicest girl I know."

Beatrice's eyes misted suddenly. How loyal he was! He acknowledged
Adele's beauty, but it made no difference in his liking for herself.
Doctor Raymond was slightly astonished, but he merely smiled at the
boy's enthusiasm, then settled himself to listen politely as Percival,
without more ado, began to play. His interest was aroused, however, by
the first notes, and soon he was leaning forward eagerly.

Adele fidgetted as she saw how rapt everyone became, and that no one was
paying the slightest attention to her. It was a new experience to have
any one else be the center of attraction while she was about.

"That is wonderful playing, my lad," exclaimed the naturalist, as
Percival finished. "Wonderful!"

"It was certainly very fine," agreed Adele. "I should like to kiss you
for it, Master Percival."

"No, you don't," ejaculated Percival. "I am not going to be mauled
around by a silly girl."

Adele's eyes flashed; then she recovered herself.

"Of course, if you do not choose, I will not," she said, retiring
gracefully from her defeat. "I merely wished to show how much I
appreciated your playing."

"I don't care much for such appreciation," remarked the boy scornfully.
"I get enough of it in the cities. Beatrice isn't a bit like you."

"No?" Adele's lip curled ever so slightly. "Bee is so sensible."

"Yes; she is," cried the lad, glaring at the other spoiled child
fiercely. "I'd rather play to her than to a dozen like you. She knows
how to appreciate music. Her eyes are full of tears now, and she
scarcely breathed all the time I played, but she doesn't want to kiss
me. Phew! it's silly!"

"Percival," interposed his mother quickly, "wouldn't you like to show
Beatrice and her cousin your new pony?"

"Gee! I had forgotten it," cried the boy, restored to good humor
instantly. "Come on, Beefly! You may come, too," he added to Adele.

For the merest second Adele hesitated. Then, as she saw that both Bee
and Percival were waiting, and that the lady and her uncle looked at her
expectantly, she arose and accompanied the two from the room.

"What a warm-hearted child she is," observed the lady to the doctor.

"She is indeed," agreed he. "And as beautiful as warm-hearted. Would
that Beatrice were more like her."

"Pardon me, Doctor Raymond; I was not speaking of your niece, but of
your daughter." The lady's surprise was obvious. "Your niece is an
exceedingly beautiful girl, but she has not the depth of character that
your daughter has. What Percival said of her appreciation of music was
true, although the boy should not have uttered it. Beatrice's judgment
is much better in such things than her cousin's."

"You amaze me, madam," gasped the scientist. "Adele seems to me to be
very sensitive to the beautiful, and extremely appreciative of the
poetry of life. Beatrice is of a more practical turn of mind. A mind of
much vigor and strength, I grant, but still uninclined toward those
things that make life graceful."

"Doctor Raymond," spoke Mrs. Medulla quickly, "there is no nature that
is deficient in its musical phrase, least of all a personality like your
daughter's. In her direct and genuine nature there is a 'Leitmotif' of
pure sweet melody that will enrich the life of its discoverer. It awaits
only the master touch. Will you be the one to give it?"

"What do you mean?" asked the Lepidopterist.

"This," she said, speaking warmly. "Beatrice is a warm-hearted, loving,
impulsive girl. She needs very tender guidance just at this time to
develop into the noble woman that she is capable of becoming. The child
is doing much for herself, but you should aid her. No doubt you will
consider the liberty unwarranted, but it must be excused by the interest
I take in her. Your niece is a very lovely girl. Any other girl who is
brought into relationship with her falls into second place unless she is
as beautiful. Beatrice was associated with her for ten years in her
home. Naturally she took second place there. If you are not careful she
will be second in your home and heart also."

"Really," began Doctor Raymond with some stiffness.

"Mamma, mamma!" Percival broke into the room followed by the two
cousins. "I don't like Adele one bit. She is wearing Beatrice's new hat;
and she shouldn't."

"Percival!" exclaimed Mrs. Medulla in shocked tones.

"I don't care," cried the lad shrilly. "I don't want her to wear my
chum's things."

"I said that she might," protested Bee, while Adele stood speechless
with mortification. "If there was another boy who lived with you,
Percival, you would often wear each other's things."

"You are rude, Percival," reprimanded his mother in severe accents. "It
is just as Beatrice says: girls always do it."

Percival said no more, but he glanced so significantly at the hat as he
bade Adele farewell that the blood rushed to her face, and her adieu was
very constrained.

"I don't like those people," she exclaimed as they passed beyond
hearing. "Bee, how can you bear the way Mrs. Medulla pronounces your
name? It sounds like Beyoutricky."

Bee opened her lips to reply, but before she could do so, her father
spoke:

"I rather liked them. The lady pronounces Beatrice's name after the
Italian fashion, and is a very warm friend of hers. The boy is
undoubtedly a genius, albeit somewhat spoiled. I am glad that we have
them for neighbors."




Chapter XVIII

A Breach of Trust

          "Our lives are songs;
          God writes the words,
    And we set them to music at leisure;
      And the song is sad, or the song is glad,
    As we choose to fashion the measure."

    --_Gibbon._


"Oh! Oh!" screamed Adele, dancing up and down distractedly. "Take it
away! Take it away!"

Doctor Raymond ran from the study into the laboratory.

"What is the matter? What has happened?" he cried, alarmed by the girl's
pale face and affrighted manner.

"It's a caterpillar," explained Bee, who was vainly trying to get Adele
to keep still long enough to remove the creature. "There, Adele, it
can't hurt you. Just be still a moment so that I can take it off."

But Adele continued to shriek, while the caterpillar wriggled along her
delicate arm, each movement sufficing to send her into a fresh paroxysm
of fear.

"There, child!" Doctor Raymond passed his arm about her, and held her
tightly. "Don't jump so. There is nothing to be afraid of. The poor
thing is as much frightened as you are. See! it's gone. Beatrice, return
it to its cage."

"Take me out of this horrid place," sobbed Adele, clinging to him
tightly. "I never want to come in here again."

"I thought you had been in before," said her uncle questioningly, as he
led her into the study. "See that everything is closed properly,
Beatrice."

"No; I have not," shivered Adele. "It was all Bee's fault. She wanted me
to see some butterflies come out of their cocoons, so I went with her.
The room was filled with creepy, crawly things. Oh, dear!" She
shuddered, then wiped her eyes, and looked up at him plaintively. "Do
you think I am an awful goose, Uncle William?"

"No, my dear," answered Doctor Raymond with a smile. "Only very
feminine. Few of your sex overcome their prejudice to creeping
creatures unless they become interested in them through science. I was
surprised that Beatrice was not timid."

Bee, entering just then, heard the remark and smiled to herself. She did
not explain that it was because of him that she had overcome her
repugnance to them.

"Bee doesn't mind anything that crawls," exclaimed Adele who had
recovered herself by this time.

"I don't like snakes," declared Bee emphatically.

"You people talk about the most dreadful things," cried Adele. "Do you
know that I wake up nights feeling creepy? If you don't care, Uncle
William, I am going down to Aunt Rachel's while you and Bee study your
old worms. No more science for me, thank you."

"By all means," smiled the naturalist. "You shall be our angel of
charity while Beatrice and I remain true to science. But perhaps you
would prefer to go with Adele, Beatrice?"

"No;" answered Bee eagerly, glad that she was to have him to herself
again. "She won't care if I stay with you, father; and I would rather
be with you."

"I don't mind going alone, Uncle William, if Bee is of any assistance to
you." Adele looked at him with pretty concern. "If she hinders you
though you ought to send her right along with me."

Doctor Raymond was silent so long that Bee was startled.

"Do I hinder you, father?" she asked tremulously. "I did not think of
that. I thought that I was helping. If I am not, if you just have me
here because you think it will please me, say so; and I won't bother you
any more."

"Now, Bee," protested Adele archly, "why do you tease him? Of course he
is much too polite to tell you that you trouble him. I was joking
anyway. Come along, and leave your father in peace."

"Leave the room," commanded Beatrice peremptorily. "I wish to be alone
with my father."

"Upon my word, Bee!" cried Adele, undecided whether she should go or
stay. She stood for a moment, and then, as her uncle did not come to her
rescue, gave a light laugh at her cousin's determined attitude, and left
the room.

"Was not that a little abrupt, my daughter?" asked Doctor Raymond
quietly.

"It was, father," admitted Beatrice contritely. "But this is a matter
that concerns us alone, and I just could not be trifled with. There was
no reason why she should stay. Now, father, if I bother you in any way,
I will do so no more, but let you work undisturbed. Do I? Tell me truly.
Don't say what you think will please me, but the truth."

"The truth! the truth! and nothing but the truth," laughed he, his eyes
softening as he met the earnest gaze of his daughter. "Set your mind at
rest, Beatrice. You do not hinder me in the least, but on the contrary
help me no little. I was summing up all that you had done when you
turned upon me so suddenly. You are rather strenuous at times."

"I know that I am, father." Bee was so relieved that she was of use to
him that she spoke for once without reserve: "I wish I were sweet and
beautiful, and all that you wish. And, and I am trying to be lovable. It
is not always easy," she ended with a sigh.

"None of us find it so, my child. I have noticed your efforts, Beatrice,
with pleasure. Another thing: when I first came home, there was a
carelessness in your dress which you have corrected. Your cousin herself
is not more neat in her attire now than you are."

"Oh, father! have you noticed?" cried Bee so delightedly that his
features relaxed into a smile. "I did not think you did. And my temper!
It is so quick, but maybe in time I'll get so that I can control it. I
used not to be so quick tempered, but since you have returned I seem to
show all my bad qualities."

"That is scarcely complimentary to me, is it? I would better put you
under your aunt's keeping again, if my influence is so--"

"Oh, no, no!" cried Bee, distressed. "I did not mean it that way. It
isn't you at all, father. It is me. I can't help but feel ugly toward
anyone who tries to come between us."

"Why, child, no one is trying to come between us. There is no reason why
we should not become very dear friends as the years go by. I am already
depending upon you greatly, and nothing but a betrayal of trust could
change my feeling for you. Such a thing as that, however, I am convinced
is foreign to your nature."

"I will never betray even your slightest wish," cried the girl
earnestly. "You do like me a little, don't you?"

"Certainly I do. Are you satisfied now?"

"Yes;" replied Bee with eyes shining with happiness. "Dear me!" she
exclaimed, glancing at the clock. "I have not been much of a help this
morning. Just look at that time!"

"We won't mind it for the nonce, Beatrice. If we work well it will be
but a few weeks until our task is done. The last of August will see all
of my specimens out of their cocoons; then--"

"Then what, father?" she asked anxiously.

"I don't quite know yet. I am considering several things before deciding
upon my plans for the future. The main point is to attend to the duty in
hand. Shall we resume our work?"

The next few days were happy ones for Beatrice. She worked with her
father every morning while Adele went to Aunt Rachel's with the
delicacies which Bee provided. In the afternoon they walked together,
and in the evening visited Percival and his mother, or were visited by
them. They were bright, happy days despite the presence of Adele. Some
way Beatrice felt that she was gaining ground with her father, and the
knowledge made her put forth her best efforts to please him.

In fact, she threw herself into the work with so much fervor that one
day she found herself too tired and indisposed to take the accustomed
walk with her father and cousin, and remained indoors for rest. After
lying down for a time, she rose and began to dress.

"I do believe that father forgot to put that sorrel grass in the
laboratory for the larv? of the Chrysophanus Americanus," she exclaimed
suddenly, pausing in the act of brushing her hair. "I'll run right down
to see."

The sorrel had been forgotten sure enough, and Beatrice ran out for some
to take into the laboratory. The afternoon was extremely warm. As a
usual thing the door between the study and the laboratory was kept
closed, but today because of the heat Bee left it open, thinking to be
in the room but a moment.

She arranged the sorrel grass in the cage where the larv? were feeding
and turned to leave the room when her attention was caught by a
brilliant bit of color on a twig near a window.

"Oh!" she cried, as going close to it she discovered that it was a
butterfly newly escaped from its chrysalis. "Oh, oh! it's father's
rarest specimen! It's the Teinopalpus Imperialis! How delighted he will
be. I wonder how soon it will fly!"

As the words left her lips the beautiful creature rose and circled the
room majestically in its first flight.

"What a beauty!" cried Bee with enthusiasm. "Won't fath--Oh, the door!"

She ran toward it quickly, but she was too late. Through it sailed the
butterfly into the study and out through the open window. Catching up
her net Bee jumped through the window, and dashed after the insect.
Daintily it settled upon a flower for a second, then away it went just
as the girl gave her net a frantic swish to catch it. Hither and thither
the creature darted as though intoxicated with its freedom after being
earth-bound for so long. Round and round went Beatrice after it; onward
and upward it flew, tantalizingly near sometimes, but ever escaping
capture. Presently it rose, and disappeared over the tree tops.

[Illustration: "OUT THROUGH THE OPEN WINDOW SAILED THE BUTTERFLY."]

"It's gone," cried Bee with a sob. "It's gone. What will father think?
And the door! The door is still open."

She ran back to the house as fast as she could. Panting and breathless,
hot and tired, she clambered through the window into the study.

"Beatrice." Doctor Raymond stood by the open door of the laboratory, his
face very grave. "Why is this door open? I might lose a very valuable
specimen through such carelessness."

"Oh, father!" cried Bee, bursting into tears. "I have lost a valuable
specimen already. I have lost your Teinopalpus Imperialis. I left the
door open to go in to put the sorrel grass in the cage for some larv?,
and it flew out. Father, father, I--"




Chapter XIX

The Closed Door

    "When cometh the close of a cherished thing,
    How keenly our heart to its charm doth cling,
    For it seems as sunshine vanishing."

    --_Pall Mall Gazette._


Doctor Raymond looked at her sternly. "My Teinopalpus Imperialis?" he
questioned.

"Yes;" answered Bee brokenly. "After you had gone I remembered that you
had spoken of sorrel grass for the larv? of the Chrysophanus Americanus,
and I thought you had forgotten it, so I ran down to put it in the cage.
I did not expect to be in the laboratory but just a minute so I left the
study door open. After I fixed the sorrel I saw the new butterfly. While
I was looking at it, it rose and flew about the room; and then, and
then--" She paused to collect herself, then continued bravely: "Then I
remembered the door, but before I could reach it the butterfly had flown
into the study, and out through the window. I ran after it to catch it,
but I could not."

"And to the best of my knowledge it is the only known specimen in
existence. Beatrice, do you realize just what your carelessness means?"

"Yes;" sobbed Bee. "I know, father."

"And you are the girl who, but a few days since, assured me that she
would fail me in nothing?"

"Yes;" said Bee again, unable to meet his eyes.

"I should have known better than to have trusted you." Doctor Raymond's
bitter disappointment was evident in his voice and manner. "It is
doubtful if that butterfly can ever be replaced. The larva was obtained
at the risk of my life, and by a few moments of carelessness all has
gone for naught. I thought you different from other girls. I believed
that you appreciated the privilege of being among my specimens too
greatly to be careless. I see my mistake. After this, I do not wish you
to enter either this study, or the laboratory. My specimens are too
valuable to risk another such loss. Do you understand, Beatrice? Under
no circumstances are you to enter these rooms again."

"Not even to help you catalogue, father?" Bee had ceased crying now, and
she stood staring at him with eyes full of anguish.

"Not even for that purpose, Beatrice. Your own untrustworthiness has
deprived you of the privilege."

"And aren't you ever going to forgive me?" she asked miserably.

"It depends upon your future conduct," returned her father coldly. "I
desire to say no more upon the subject at present. Go now, while I
repair whatever else of mischief may be done."

He went into the laboratory as he finished speaking, closing the door
behind him. Bee sank into a chair, and sat gazing after him with all her
heart in her eyes. It was ended. The delightful mornings of study, the
cataloguing, the mounting and framing of the beautiful insects. By her
own act she had forfeited the right to be his companion and helper. She
did not question the justice of the punishment. She knew that it was
right. Her father's collection was in truth too valuable to be exposed
to carelessness. That it was regarded as almost priceless by the
University, Beatrice knew, and, as the full realization came to her that
she had lost its rarest specimen, the girl was almost overwhelmed with
grief.

It was several moments before she could obtain control of herself. Then
she rose, and went slowly toward the door. Pausing with her hand on the
knob she turned for a last glance at the loved objects in the room. Long
she looked at her father's chair, at the heap of manuscript on the
table, at her own place with the note book and pencil in front of it, at
the door of the laboratory behind which were all the wonderful
specimens. She would be with them no more. Bee's heart was very full as
she opened the door and went out, shutting it softly behind her.

Her hair was still loose and flying, but the girl felt that she could
not stay in the house. She must get somewhere where she could be alone.
Beyond the Medulla residence was a deep wood, and out into the road went
Beatrice, intending to reach its cool recesses. The warm sunshine had
brought out clouds of butterflies. Small white ones sported like fragile
flower petals in the bright rays. Silvery winged fritillaries sailed
hither and thither among the red clover blossoms. A Monarch rose from a
stalk of milkweed, and winged its stately flight just ahead of her. On a
mud puddle by the roadside a number of azures had collected, but
Beatrice, usually keenly alive to the presence of the beloved insects,
passed them unheedingly. As she reached the group of sycamore trees that
stood in front of the Medulla residence she paused abruptly as she
caught sight of Percival and a boy under the trees. The boy, whom she
recognized as the bully of the town, was dancing about the Infant
Prodigy, amusing himself after the fashion of boys by teasing him.

"Is it alive?" he cried, giving Percival a poke in the ribs. "Say, kin
ye speak?"

"I'll show you whether I can or not," pluckily retorted Percival who was
crying mad. He made a lunge at the boy as he spoke.

"Shoo!" said the boy, brushing off an imaginary fly. "Flies are purty
bothersome this year."

"Take that! And that! And that!" cried Percival, letting his small fists
fly at his tormentor.

"Stop tickling, I tell you," cried the bully, seizing his hands and
holding them tightly. "Say, sissy, give me one of your curls to remember
ye by; won't you?"

In a flash Beatrice comprehended the situation. As Percival began to
struggle helplessly in his tormentor's grip, she flew at the bully
impetuously.

"Why, it's a gurl!" exclaimed the boy as, dropping Percival's hands, he
turned to confront this new adversary.

"Yes," gasped Bee, punctuating her words by vigorous boxes on his ears.
"It is a girl. How do you like it?"

With all the strength of her pent-up emotion she sailed into her unhappy
victim. Had Bee been given to self analysis she would have known that,
aside from her desire to help Percival out of his dilemma, she rejoiced
in the opportunity to give vent to her own unhappiness. There followed a
few brief moments of spirited action on her part, interspersed with
howls of pain from the boy. Presently he broke away from her and fled
precipitantly. Flushed by the success of battle Bee turned toward
Percival triumphantly.

"There! I don't think he'll trouble you soon again, Percival," she said.

"You are a chum worth having, Beefly," cried the lad enthusiastically.
"It was splendid. My! My! didn't you go for him!" He doubled up in a
paroxysm of laughter at the remembrance. "But see here!" he ejaculated
suddenly, becoming grave. "This baby business is dead right now. I have
been guyed about it as long as I am going to be, and this ends it. I am
a sure enough boy, and I am going to show it."

"What are you going to do?" demanded Bee, surprised by his earnestness.

"I am going to attend to this hair. The thing's got to be done today.
Come down to the house and help me; won't you?"

"Wouldn't it be better for your mother to help you, Percival?"
questioned the girl dubiously.

"Come on, and we'll see," he replied. Welcoming the diversion Beatrice
followed him.

"Now just go in and wait for me," he said, opening the door of the
sitting room. "I won't be gone a minute."

Wondering where Mrs. Medulla was Bee sat down. She knew the iron of
ridicule had sunk deep into Percival's soul, and she feared for the
result. If his mother would but enter soon, the girl reflected, she need
not feel any responsibility in the matter. As the moments glided by,
however, and no Mrs. Medulla appeared, she was assailed by a sense of
uneasiness.

"What do you think of these?" exclaimed Percival, bounding into the room
presently. "Look, Beefly! Aren't they great?"

Somewhere the boy had unearthed a pair of long trousers, a coat, and a
real shirt with collar and tie. He whirled about for her inspection
delightedly.

"Not much Fauntleroy about these, eh?" he said complacently. "What do
you think of them?"

Bee was so relieved that she laughed outright.

"You don't look like the same boy, Percival. Do you think you could play
your violin in those clothes?"

"Why of course I can," he declared. "I'll show you; but first--"

He ran to his mother's machine, and opening a drawer took out a pair of
large shears. Bee ran toward him quickly.

"You must not do that, Percival," she cried. "Oh, where is your mother?"

"My mother has gone into town," answered Percival with a swagger. "I'll
settle with her. Now, Beefly, you cut off that hair."

"I will not, Percival," answered Bee emphatically. "Do wait until your
mother comes back. Do, Percival; like a dear fellow."

But Master Percival raised the shears, and--snip! Off went a curl.
Another and another followed; the lad watching the result of the
snipping in the mirror. As the last clip sounded Bee gave a gasp at the
result.

"What will your mother say?" she cried, wishing herself anywhere but in
the Medulla sitting room. "Oh! what will she say?"

"It's all right," declared Percival sturdily, though it must be
confessed that he was slightly dismayed himself. "At least it would be
if it were even. Do cut it straight for me, Beefly."

He thrust the shears into her hand as he spoke, and turned his back to
her. "Now hurry, and cut it even," he said.

"Percival, are you here?" Mrs. Medulla opened the door at this
unfortunate moment, and walked in. "I have brought you something nice
from town. Guess--Why!"

She stopped short at sight of the pair. Like a culprit Beatrice stood
with the shears in her hand, while Percival seemed stricken dumb. The
lady's gaze concentrated upon her son's clipped head. For a long instant
the three stood as though incapable of speech; then the mother spoke,
and Bee shivered at the severity of her tones:

"Beatrice, what are you doing with those shears? Surely you did not cut
Percival's hair?"




Chapter XX

Bee Is Disappointed in Percival

    "If lives were always merry,
      Our souls would seek relief,
    And rest from weary laughter
      In the quiet arms of grief."

    --_Henry Van Dyke._


"Why, why," stammered Bee, so astonished by the lady's words that she
could scarcely speak. She glanced down at the incriminating shears which
she held in her hand, then at Percival, expecting that the lad would
instantly tell how the affair had occurred, and so absolve her from
blame. To her amazement the boy did not utter a word, but stood gazing
at his mother as though fascinated. It came to Beatrice with something
of a shock that he was frightened.

"Which one of you did it?" demanded Mrs. Medulla, turning first to the
boy and then to the girl. "Why, oh why, was it done? Don't you know,
Beatrice, that this will end all engagements for the winter? Percival
knew it. He would not have the hardihood to do such a thing by himself.
It must have been you. You should not have done it. No manager wants a
boy without curls."

"Oh," murmured Bee. She looked at Percival beseechingly, but the boy,
usually so ready with excuses still stood mute.

"Have I been mistaken in you after all, Beatrice," went on the lady,
surprised at the girl's continued silence. "You seemed to have such an
excellent influence upon Percival heretofore that it grieves me to find
that my estimate of your character is wrong. I did not dream that you
would incite him to mischief of any sort. I can not understand it. A
thing of this nature, upon which so much depended, should not have been
done without consulting me. Percival has not been kept in curls and
knickerbockers without a reason. I know he has rebelled at times, but he
knew the necessity. Didn't you know this, Beatrice?"

"No;" uttered Bee helplessly. "I didn't know. I--"

"You did know, however, that you should have kept him from such an act
until my return," said the mother, who was very near tears. "Why did you
not?"

It has been said that Beatrice was possessed of that peculiar sense of
honor that is common among boys, where one will suffer an unjust
accusation rather than tell upon another. She was like a boy in many
ways: frank, direct, and scornful of tattling; so now she stood silent
while the lady waited, perplexed by what seemed to be an obstinate
refusal to answer.

"I shall have to report this to your father, Beatrice," she said
presently, with sorrow. "Perhaps he will be more successful in obtaining
an explanation from you than I have been. We will go to him. Percival,
do you remain where you are. I will deal with you upon my return."

She caught Beatrice by the arm and hurried her out of the house, through
the fields to her own home. Doctor Raymond sat with Adele in the
library. He glanced up in some astonishment at their abrupt entrance.

"Doctor Raymond," began Mrs. Medulla at once, her usually even tones
tense with excitement, "do you know what your daughter has done?"

"Nothing serious, I hope, madam," he replied with a quick glance at
Beatrice.

"It is serious, doctor. Very serious for us. She has cut off Percival's
curls. Do you realize the meaning of such an act? It means that no
manager will book him for an engagement. People don't care for a boy
musician without curls."

Involuntarily Doctor Raymond's eyes wandered to Adele, who sat watching
the scene with troubled countenance. She was daintily arrayed as was her
custom, and looked sweet, charming, and ladylike. All that a girl should
be she appeared to be. A slight, a very slight sigh escaped him. Slight
as it was, however, his daughter heard it. She saw plainly what was
passing in his mind, and it was all that she could do to restrain
control of herself.

"If Beatrice did this I can not believe that she realized the full
import of the action," he said gravely. "And while I do not wish to
palliate the offense, I fear that you exaggerate the effect upon your
engagements. Your son plays wonderfully well, Mrs. Medulla, and should
not be dependent upon the mere adjunct of curls for an audience."

"Doctor Raymond," spoke the lady earnestly, "I know whereof I speak when
I say that it will be years before Percival can appear before an
audience again. As an Infant Prodigy he was remarkable. As a boy no
manager will take him. There is no between-period with performers. One
must be a prodigy, or a man genius, to command attention. I can not
understand why Beatrice should do it, and I can get no explanation from
either her or Percival."

"Why did you do it, my daughter?" asked the scientist.

But Beatrice was past speaking. Something in her throat choked her. She
looked down suddenly to find that she still held the shears in her hand.
How could any one believe otherwise than that she had cut the boy's
curls when she held the telltale scissors in her hand?

"Why?" asked her father again, but still she did not answer. "Do you
remember what I said about my forgiveness of your carelessness depending
upon your future conduct, Beatrice?"

Bee nodded, battling hard to keep back the tears. She did not wish to
get Percival into trouble, yet she was not willing that her father
should think that she would be capable of doing anything that would
bring harm to Mrs. Medulla. Presently, obtaining the mastery of her
emotion, she crossed swiftly to his side and laid her hand timidly upon
his arm.

"Father," she cried pleadingly, "please don't ask me to tell you
anything about the matter. I--I can't."

"Why, Beatrice?"

The girl did not reply. She only gazed at him with mutely appealing
eyes.

"Is it because it would involve another in the telling?" he asked
abruptly, stirred, perhaps, by a remembrance of his own youth.

"Yes," whispered Bee. "Please, please, father, don't ask anything more."

"Suppose we let the affair rest until tomorrow, Mrs. Medulla," suggested
he, turning to the lady. "It is my opinion that neither Beatrice nor
Percival realized what they were doing. Perhaps both are laboring under
some natural agitation in consequence as the matter seems to be fraught
with more serious results than they thought. You would better go to your
room, my daughter."

"Yes, oh, yes;" assented Bee quickly. "I'd like--I'd like--" And she
burst into tears.

"Excuse me a moment, madam, I beg," said the scientist rising. He drew
his daughter's hand through his arm, and quietly led her from the room,
up the stairs to her own chamber.

"I do not believe, Beatrice, that you are any more concerned in this
matter than is Percival," he remarked as he opened the door for her. "I
can see that you consider it right to shield him as well as yourself by
refusing an explanation. I shall ask you nothing further concerning it.
I can only say how deeply I regret that you should have done anything
that would give pain to Mrs. Medulla."

"Father, father," sobbed Bee, turning to him appealingly, "it isn't, it
isn't as you think. Oh, do trust me a little."

"Do you think you have proved worthy of being trusted, Beatrice?"

"No;" admitted the girl humbly. "I don't deserve it at all when I was so
careless; but this is different. You ought not to judge me harshly until
you know all about it."

"I do not wish to judge you harshly in anything, my child. In the
present instance nothing can be done until the circumstances are known.
As you refuse to tell them you must accept whatever judgment your
actions call for. I think if I were you I should lie down for a time.
You seem quite warm and a little upset. Try to compose yourself."

"I will, father." Bee entered the room with a sigh. He had not yet
forgiven her the loss of the butterfly, she could see. She sat down and
buried her face in her hands as the door closed behind him, and gave way
to a flood of tears.

For what lay at the bottom of her bitterness? It was the knowledge that
with just a little more carefulness on her part none of this trouble
would have come upon her. Grief when caused by one's own carelessness is
harder to bear than that which comes from unfortunate circumstance, so
now Bee took herself to task severely.

"Mrs. Medulla told me that I was liable to spoil everything," she
mused with some bitterness. "Oh, dear! just when things were going
nicely I had to spoil it all by a few moments of carelessness. And if
Percival doesn't explain his mother will never like me again; while
father--" She choked. Her heart ached with longing for her father's
forgiveness.

"Poor father," she exclaimed suddenly as she went to the mirror to put
up her hair. "If he is as disappointed in me as I am in Percival I know
just how he feels. I knew that Percival was a spoiled child, but I
didn't think he was a coward. I wonder if I seem as different to father?
If I do I don't wonder that he prefers Adele."

And with this Bee laid down upon the bed, and through sheer exhaustion
fell asleep.




Chapter XXI

How the Day Ended

    "Within the garden's peaceful scene
      Appeared two lovely foes,
    Aspiring to the rank of queen,
      The Lily and the Rose."

    --_Cowper._


Bee was awakened by Aunt Fanny bringing in her dinner. The sun had set
and the cool sweetness of the evening gave relief from the heat of the
day. All the events of the afternoon seemed unreal and dreamlike in
spite of her aching eyes. She arose and began to bathe them, with a
strange feeling of insensibility as though nothing could ever make her
cry again.

"Now, honey, I jest ain't a-gwine ter take dat dinnah back," remarked
the negress determinedly, seating herself as Bee motioned her to take
the food away. "Dere ain't no use mopin' erroun' like you-all is doin'.
Yer pa fixed hit him own se'f, an' I ain't gwine ter take hit back."

"Did you say that father fixed it?" asked the girl with quick interest.

"'Deed he did, Miss Bee. He done poured de tea, an' put two lumps of
sugah in de saucah jest like you does fer de world. Den he fixed de
thing on de tray, an' he say, 'Take dat to Miss Beatrice,' he say.
'Co'se I done hit; an' heah I is, an' heah I stays 'twel you eats hit."

"If father fixed it, I will eat it," said Bee. "You are not joking about
it, Aunt Fanny? You are sure that he did it, and not Adele?"

"Now, Miss Bee, yer knows dat Miss Adele ain't a-gwine ter bodder her
haid 'bout udder folks; specially ef dey ain't erroun'," returned Aunt
Fanny scornfully, with whom Adele was no favorite. "No'm; she too busy
wid sayin': 'How does ye like yer coffee, uncle deah? Am hit sweet 'nuff
fer ye?' Jest like buttah wouldn't melt in her mouf. No'm; Miss Adele
ain't a-bodderin' 'bout you all. Ner enny body elsen but her own se'f."

"I don't know about that," demurred Bee, wishing to be just to her
cousin. "She certainly looks after old Rachel. I don't believe that she
has missed a day going down there for the past three weeks. We must give
her credit for that, Aunt Fanny."

"Huh!" snorted Aunt Fanny. "I reckon yer doesn't know ebberthing, Miss
Bee."

"What do you mean?" questioned Bee, pausing in the act of taking a bite
of bread.

"Nebber you min' what I means," returned the old woman mysteriously.
"Jest yer eat yer dinnah."

"But I want to know," insisted Bee. Before Aunt Fanny could answer,
however, Adele herself entered the room.

"Uncle William says for you to come right down, Bee. Percival and his
mother are there, and wish to see you."

"Percival," exclaimed Bee. "Why, I thought his mother would not want him
to see me any more?"

"You can't blame her, can you?" asked her cousin pertly. "Bee, whatever
got into you today? Percival looks dreadful with his curls off. What
made you cut them?"

Bee's eyes flashed. She did not reply for a full moment. When she spoke
she said merely:

"Perhaps you would not understand even though I should tell you about
the matter, Adele."

"Perhaps not. Bee Raymond, do you know that you are dreadfully changed?
When you came in the library this afternoon with that bleached hair of
yours flying you looked a perfect fright." Adele giggled, and then added
with some malice: "Uncle William thinks so, too."

"Never mind," spoke Bee frigidly. "You have your good looks so what does
it matter? Just think what a calamity it would be if you were to lose
them!"

"I think you are just as mean as can be to even suggest such a thing,
Bee Raymond. I wouldn't lose my beauty for anything."

"I should hope not," said her cousin cuttingly. "There wouldn't be
anything left to you if you did."

"I couldn't be as ugly as you are if I did lose it," retorted Adele
angrily.

"Oh, I am getting horrid," exclaimed Bee rising, her better nature
coming to her aid. "Simply horrid! I beg your pardon, Adele. You
couldn't be anything but pretty, of course. Will you come down with
me?"

"Oh, it's all right," yawned Adele, quite appeased by Bee's apology. "I
dare say that I should feel just as you do were I in your place. No; I
won't go down. It's you they want to see. They are in the library with
Uncle William."

Bee went slowly down stairs. She felt reluctant to meet Percival, and to
have the subject of the hair cutting reopened. As she entered the
library the boy ran to her, and caught her hand.

"Beefly, you're a brick," he cried. "You see, when my mother came in she
was so angry that I was scared. I think I never was afraid of her before
in my life, so I let you take the blame. And you didn't tell on me at
all. You're a chum worth having. That was twice today that you took my
part."

"Perhaps, my boy, you would not mind telling just how the matter
occurred," suggested Doctor Raymond. "Beatrice has left us very much in
the dark concerning it."

"I don't mind in the least," answered Percival who seemed eager now to
explain everything. "Beatrice was not to blame at all. You see--"

"Permit me to say a word first, Percival," interrupted his mother, who
had stood quietly by while he made his apologies. "Beatrice, you must
pardon me, also, as well as Percival. I did not understand things until
he explained them on my return home. I am truly sorry that I spoke so
hastily as I did before learning all the circumstances. It seems, from
what Percival tells me, that you did all that you could to keep him from
cutting his hair, and then shouldered the blame rather than tell on him.
My dear, I am very sorry for what I said. Can you forgive me?"

"Don't speak of it, Mrs. Medulla," cried Bee warmly. "I was to blame
after all, because I ought to have held his hands, or kept him in some
way from those shears. And oh! where are they? I brought them home with
me."

"Then we are friends again, dear," said the lady kissing her. "Never
mind the shears. I don't mind if I never see them again. I--"

"Mamma, Doctor Raymond is waiting to hear the particulars," broke in
Percival, anxious to be heard. "You see, sir," turning to the scientist
who was listening amusedly, "ever since I came here the boys have been
making life miserable for me about the way I dressed and wore my hair.
Yesterday that big Jack Brown was having sport with me, teasing for a
curl, and, and all that sort of thing. When I tried to fight him I could
not do anything because he grabbed my hands. Beatrice came to my rescue,
and maybe she didn't put him to flight. You should have seen her." He
chuckled at the remembrance, then continued: "I told her that the baby
business ended then and there. That I wasn't going to be made fun of any
longer. I asked her to cut off my hair, but she wouldn't; so I did it. I
didn't think about the money part of it, or I would not have done it. I
can play just as well with trousers and short hair as I can with curls
and knickerbockers, and I told mamma so after she came back from here.
Wasn't Beatrice a trump, though, not to tell on me, and to take the
blame? Why didn't you tell, Beefly? I thought girls always did."

"Of course I wasn't going to tell if you wouldn't own up," returned Bee.
"That would be tattling."

"Any other girl would have done it," cried Percival. "I hate awfully to
go away and leave you."

"O Percival! are you going away?"

"Yes; I came to tell how the affair happened, and to say good-bye. I am
going back to New York to study. I am going to show people that a boy
can play as well as a man even though he isn't an Infant Prodigy. I'll
have to work hard, and throw no more fits if things go wrong; but, Gee!
I'd rather do it than to wear curls."

"You are right, my lad." Doctor Raymond shook his hand. "You will come
out all right. I am sure. Your playing can not fail to win you a place
in spite of your clothes. I wish you every success. I will leave you to
say good-bye to the girls while your mother and I have a few words. You
would like to see Adele too, I presume?"

"I suppose so," answered Master Percival dubiously. "Mamma said that I
must be very nice to make up for my misbehavior, so I suppose that I
must see Adele too. I don't care so much for her as I do for Beatrice.
She is too pretty to be jolly. Pretty folks don't make very good chums.
They think too much of themselves. I can't bear any one who is spoiled,
but--Yes; send her down."

Doctor Raymond smiled broadly as he and the lady left the room.

"I am so sorry that you are going, Percival," said Bee with a catch in
her voice. "I shall miss you so much. Oh, I wish you were not going."

"I am coming back some day, Beefly," he declared earnestly. "Mind you
don't go away from here so that I can't find you. You must stay right
here."

"Yes;" answered Bee. "I shall always be right here whenever you come. I
hope it won't be long."

"And so you are going to leave us?" said Adele sweetly as she entered
the room. "I shall miss you very much, Percival. I am glad to have had
the pleasure of knowing you, and of hearing you play. Perhaps we shall
meet again."

"Thank you," answered the boy on his best behavior. "I am glad to have
known you, too. I have enjoyed our picnics very much, Adele."

"Picnics?" ejaculated Bee. "When did you ever have a picnic with Adele?"

"Hasn't she told you?" asked the boy in surprise. "Every morning that
you studied with your father lately, she would bring a basket of goodies
and we went to the grove. It was fun, but it would have been jollier if
you had been there."

"Adele," cried Bee sharply, a remembrance of Aunt Fanny's words coming
to her, "were those the things you were to take to old Rachel?"

"Yes, they were," answered Adele defiantly. "I got tired of carrying
them down to that cabin. I don't believe that old woman is sick,
anyway."

"Whether she was or not you should have taken those things to her,"
spoke Doctor Raymond, who had entered the room unperceived by the young
people. "If you were tired of taking them you should have said so, and
some one would have relieved you of the burden. As it is, she deems us
guilty of neglect when we promised her aid, and, worse still, she may
have suffered for the need of those very things. Is there no confidence
to be placed in girls? Is neither of you to be trusted?"

Adele's face at first scarlet with mortification turned white under the
reproof. She gazed at him pleadingly, and then bursting into tears ran
to him and threw her arms about him.

"Do forgive me, Uncle William," she sobbed. "If you will, I'll never
neglect her again. Please, please try me just once more! Only once
more, Uncle William. Will you?"

Doctor Raymond's stern expression relaxed as the pretty penitent clung
to him.

"There!" he said with great gentleness. "Perhaps I demand too much of
you. I should remember that you are young and thoughtless, and perhaps,
too, you did not realize the gravity of what you were doing. There,
child! we will say no more about it, but you must be more careful."

"And you do forgive me, uncle? You will let me try again?"

"Yes, child; of course I forgive you."

Bee listened to the foregoing conversation with amazement and profound
astonishment. She, too, had trespassed, but he had promised forgiveness
only if her future conduct merited it. What was the reason that he found
it so much harder to forgive her than Adele? Did he exact more from her
because she was his daughter? He had told her that he had thought her
different from other girls. If that were the case then did he expect her
to come up to a higher standard? Puzzled, perplexed, she gazed at her
father with such steady directness that he turned his head and met her
glance squarely.

"Beatrice," he said, "I fear you do not understand many things."

But Bee smiled suddenly. She thought she had solved the enigma. And with
the thought came the resolve that she would meet his expectations; that
she would, if endeavor could bring it about, reach the high standard he
had set for his daughter. So she was able to reply:

"I think that I do, father. It's all right."

Then with Percival she went out of the room.




Chapter XXII

"I Shouldn't Want You To Be Anything But Pretty"

                            "Let each art
    Assail a fault or help a merit grow;
    Like threads of silver seen through crystal beads,
    Let love through good deeds show."

    --_Edwin Arnold._


"Now how shall I get this to him?" pondered Bee the next morning as she
stood before the study door with a bowl of pansies in her hand. Since
old Rachel had told her that it had been a custom of her mother's she
had not failed to put a flower of some sort on her father's table each
morning. "Adele!"

"Yes?" answered Adele, coming to the hall. "What is it, Bee? Those
pansies?"

"Yes; do you mind putting them on father's table for me? I don't know
how to get them there this morning."

"Certainly I'll do it, Bee. But why don't you take them in yourself? He
has not gone in yet, and I won't tell."

"Father told me not to," returned Bee. "I don't want to go in until I am
worthy."

Adele laughed as she took the pansies.

"You know, Bee, if you were to go right in, and tease him a bit, he
wouldn't think anything more about your staying out," she said. "You
ought to take some lessons from me. I know just how to manage him."

"We are different, Adele," answered Bee. "What would be all right for
you would not do at all for me. If you will just help me a little about
this you don't know how much I will appreciate it. I have been wondering
how it could be managed."

"What will you do when I am gone?" asked Adele.

"I don't know," answered Bee slowly. "Are you thinking of going soon?"

"I suppose that I'll have to go when school begins," said Adele. "I
don't want to go a bit. It's poky at home without you. I'd rather stay
here."

"You would?" questioned Bee wonderingly. "I should think that you would
rather be with your father and mother. Now, why doesn't she go home
now?" she asked herself as her cousin went into the study. "Uncle Henry
is better, and I should think that she would want to see him. I would
not want to be away from father if he were ill."

So it came about that each morning Beatrice carefully arranged the
flowers, and Adele took them into the study from which Bee was barred.
The girl's eyes always grew wistful whenever her father disappeared into
the room, and she was obliged to busy herself about the house in order
not to dwell too much upon the fact of her exclusion.

The summer was drawing to a close. There was a cool crispness in the air
that heralded the approach of Autumn. To Bee it seemed at times as
though a blight had fallen upon everything. There were no longer
Percival and his mother to visit, and while Doctor Raymond continued to
walk with her and Adele he seemed to withdraw more and more into his own
pursuits. The evenings were still devoted to music, but here Adele was
pre-eminent. Bee, however, retained her place in the management of the
household, jealously guarding the privilege of looking after her
father's comfort. Remembering that he had spoken of her attention to
neatness she became punctilious in her dress, and about the appointments
of the house. Her character was deepening and developing; and from a
merry-hearted, careless maiden she was growing into a thoughtful and
broad-minded girl.

"Adele," she said one morning rather sharply to her cousin who dawdled
on the couch with a book and a box of chocolates, "have you been down to
Rachel's today?"

"No," yawned Adele. "I haven't."

"Aren't you ready to go? The basket is fixed, and it is nearly eleven
o'clock. If we go for a walk with father after lunch there will be no
other time. You ought to go now."

"There's no hurry," protested Adele. "Do you know, Bee, I don't think it
is necessary to go every day?"

"It does not matter what you think, Adele. Father said to do it." Bee's
manner showed plainly that in her opinion that left nothing further to
be said.

"I'll manage Uncle William," remarked Adele with a conscious little
laugh, but nevertheless she rose from her reclining position. "It's a
perfect nuisance."

"I'll go. It is my place to do it after all. I should have gone long
ago, but I thought that you liked to do it."

"Well," hesitated Adele, "I promised Uncle William, you know, and the
old woman likes me to come. You need not go, Bee. I'll do it myself."

She took the basket of food from Bee's hand, and left the room. Bee saw
her go out the gate walking very slowly.

"She doesn't like to go for some reason," mused the girl. "I must take
it upon myself to go down every morning. I must find the time somehow.
Oh, dear!" She gave an impatient shake to her shoulders.

Just as the mid-day meal was placed upon the table Adele returned,
looking cool and as daintily immaculate as though she had not been out
of the house.

"How you must have hurried," cried Bee. "Did you run every step of the
way?"

"Not every step, Bee. How warm you look!"

"It is more than you do," answered Bee looking at her with wonder.
"You've been out in the hot sun yet you seem as cool as a cucumber."

"I don't show heat," replied Adele lightly. "Shall I tell Uncle William
that lunch is ready?"

"If you please."

Dr. Raymond responded to the summons slowly. Bee knew from his grave
manner that something was wrong, and all through the meal she cast
apprehensive glances in his direction. Adele did not notice his
preoccupation, and chatted gaily seemingly unaware that his replies were
monosyllabic.

"Girls," said the scientist when the repast was finished, "come into the
library with me. I wish to speak with you."

Bee followed him with uneasiness. What had gone amiss she wondered. She
could not think of anything that she had done or left undone that could
cause such gravity. Her cousin, oblivious to signs of storm, or secure,
perhaps, in the knowledge of his affection, caught hold of his arm
exclaiming merrily:

    "'Come into the garden, Maude,
    I am here at the gate alone.'"

"Only in this case the garden is the library. What are you going to say
to us, Uncle William? Something nice?"

"I fear not, Adele. What I have to say, however, will not be more
unpleasant for you to hear than it will be for me to say."

"Dear me!" cried she looking up at him with pretended dismay. "That
sounds formidable, doesn't it, Bee?"

Dr. Raymond held the library door open for them to enter, then closed
it, and faced them.

"When have either of you been to see old Rachel?" he asked abruptly.

"Adele went this morning," spoke Bee quickly, glad now that she had
insisted upon the visit being made.

"Indeed? How was the old woman, Adele?"

"Why, why, all right! That is--about as she always is," stammered Adele
changing color.

"Adele! Adele!" Her uncle spoke more in sorrow than in anger. "If you
went to Rachel's, how came this to be hidden in the hedge?"

He crossed to his desk, and uncovered the identical basket that Bee had
fixed for her cousin to take to Rachel. Adele gave an exclamation, but
recovered herself almost instantly.

"You see, uncle," she said, trying to speak carelessly, "it was this
way: It was so hot when I started and so near noon that I thought I
would not have time to get back for lunch, so I put the basket there
intending to run down with it when it was cooler."

"Were you there yesterday?" demanded her uncle receiving the explanation
without comment.

Adele hesitated.

"I want the truth, Adele."

"No;" confessed she faintly. "But I'll go right now, Uncle William."

"Were you there the day before?"

Adele covered her face with her hands without replying.

"I want to know when you were there," said Dr. Raymond sternly.

"I--I don't remember," said the girl with a sob. "Oh, Uncle William, it
was so hot, and I--I got tired of it; but I will go. I'll go right now."

She started for the basket as she spoke, but a gesture from her uncle
arrested her.

"Wait," he said. "Beatrice, why did you not see that Rachel's needs were
attended to?"

"I thought they were," answered Bee, growing pale. "Adele was to look
after the matter."

"Adele has been careless and negligent," observed her father severely,
"but that does not ease you of responsibility. It was your place to have
seen that my wishes in the matter were carried out."

"But, father--"

"I will listen to no excuse, Beatrice," interrupted Doctor Raymond
decidedly. "There can be none, and it is useless to try to shield
yourself behind your cousin. Whatever excuse Adele may have for her
neglect you have none. That old woman was your mother's faithful servant
for many years. It was your duty, and should have been your pleasure, to
have seen that she was taken care of. I thought," he continued with some
emotion, "that every girl welcomed an opportunity to minister to those
in need. I thought that every maiden gently reared was actuated by
motives of honor and truth, and would sacredly discharge a duty
intrusted to her. It seems that I was mistaken. I fear that I do not
understand girls of the present age. If it were possible I would gladly
take this matter into my own hands, but I cannot spare the time."

"Uncle, please, please try me again," pleaded Adele eagerly. "I really
will be faithful this time. Bee and I both will be. Won't we, Bee?"

Bee was dumb. She was overwhelmed by her father's words, and her
conscience reproached her. There had been several occasions when she
suspected that Adele was not performing the duty. In view of the fact
that she had failed before, she knew that she herself ought to have
looked after the matter more carefully.

"I do not quite trust either of you," spoke Doctor Raymond thoughtfully,
"but because I believe that it will be of benefit to your characters to
insist upon this act of charity I shall try again. If it is a tax upon
you, let one go one day, and the other the next. Rest assured, however,
that I shall watch the matter closely to see that it is attended to. If
there is any shirking I shall know it. Now take that basket and go! Do
not let me see you again until you can inform me truthfully that Rachel
has received it. Beatrice, I charge you particularly with the duty."

He turned from them so decidedly that they had no alternative but to
leave the room, taking the basket with them.

"You needn't say a word, Bee," cried Adele avoiding her cousin's glance.
"I'm not going to take another scolding."

"I'm not going to scold, Adele, but why did you not tell me that you did
not want to go?"

"Oh, it's all my fault of course. Here! give me that basket. You needn't
go!"

"But I will," said Beatrice with decision. "I am not going to give
father a chance to say that I am to blame again. I am going to see that
the thing is done. The basket will have to be fixed over anyway."

"We'll both go," said Adele. "If you won't scold, I'll carry it. I
suppose that I ought to do something for getting us into the scrape. I
didn't know that Uncle William would care so much. Oh, my! wasn't he
mad?"

Bee made no reply. She rearranged the contents of the basket, added some
fresh eggs and other things, and together they started for Rachel's
cabin. It was very warm, but they toiled along the dusty road with the
conviction that whatever of discomfort they experienced they merited it.
They were grateful when they could leave the road and enter the shaded
wood path that led to the cabin. Soon they could discern the chimney of
the dwelling through the trees; then a turn in the path brought them
into the cleared space where the hut stood. They were proceeding toward
it when all at once Bee stood stock still.

"Look!" she cried.

Adele's glance followed her pointing finger, and every drop of blood
left her face. There upon the closed door of the cabin was a big yellow
sign "SMALL POX." For one long moment the two stood looking at the card;
then Adele clutched her cousin's arm.

"Come," she whispered fearfully. "We must get away. We can't go there
now."

"We've got to," answered Bee grimly, but her face grew white as she said
it. "We've got to, Adele. If she's been sick long she wouldn't have
anything to eat. Father would never get over it. Besides he told us he
didn't want to see us again unless she got the basket."

"Oh, Bee! I can't! I can't go! Suppose I should get the small pox."

The tears streamed from Adele's eyes. Bee turned and looked at the girl
earnestly. Her eyes shone through her tears like violets wet with dew.
Her complexion had never seemed so fair, so flawless as now. How lovely
she was! Looking at her Bee felt all the bitterness of her feeling
toward her melt from her heart.

"No;" she said, leaning forward suddenly to kiss her. "You must not go,
Adele. I shouldn't want you to be anything but pretty, but I haven't any
beauty to lose. Father charged me particularly with the duty, so I'll do
it, Adele. You can go back and tell him truly that she has the basket."

[Illustration: "I WOULD NOT HAVE YOU ANYTHING BUT PRETTY."]

"But what will you do after you give it to her?" cried Adele. "You
musn't come back to the house, Bee. You might bring the small pox to
me."

"And to father," spoke Bee perplexed. Then she brightened. "Adele, do
you know the old fishermen's hut near the river?"

"Yes."

"Go home; get a pillow and some covers; then fix up something for me to
eat as we did for Rachel. When I get through here I'll go there to stay.
If I have the small pox neither you nor father can take it then."

"But, but," protested Adele.

"Do just as I tell you, Adele. That's the only way to manage it. Hurry
up, so you will be away from the hut before I come. Will you be quick?"

"Yes;" promised Adele.

"Good-bye!" Bee kissed her again. "If, if I should take the small pox
you'll be good to father, Adele?"

"Yes, yes," sobbed Adele.

"Good-bye," said Bee again, and turning went quickly toward the cabin.

Adele watched her as if fascinated; and then, as Bee opened the door and
went in, she turned and ran away as fast as her legs could carry her.




Chapter XXIII

"The Greatest of These Is Charity"

                        "'Tis a little thing
    To give a cup of water; yet its draught
    Of cool refreshment, drained by fevered lips,
    May give a shock of pleasure to the frame
    More exquisite than when nectarean juice
    Renews the life of joy that in happiest hours abound."

    --_Thomas Noon._


When Bee left Adele and went into the cabin of old Rachel she seemed
calm and collected. In reality she was very much frightened. Fearful of
what she might see involuntarily she closed her eyes as she shut the
door behind her, and stood so for a few moments. Presently overcoming
her dread she opened them and glanced around.

The room was in semi-darkness, its one window being closed tightly. The
atmosphere was hot and stifling, and permeated by a peculiar sickening
odor. With an exclamation she threw wide the door to admit the air and
sunshine. On the bed in one corner of the room lay the form of a woman,
and it took all the courage she possessed for the girl to go to her. It
was old Rachel, but her features were so swollen and disfigured by the
disease as to be almost unrecognizable. She seemed in a sort of stupor
for she lay nearly motionless.

A shudder of loathing shook Bee from head to foot, and she was seized by
a strong desire to run away. Obeying the impulse she reached the door,
but her flight was arrested by a moan from the negress, and an almost
incoherent muttering of, "Water! Water!"

"She is thirsty," whispered Bee, pausing on the threshold. "I wonder
where Tillie is!"

For, strange to say, there was no one in the cabin but old Rachel.

"I must get the water myself," said Bee aloud. "It's a shame to leave
that poor old woman alone!"

She ran to the well and drew a bucketful of clear cold water, which she
carried to the cabin. Filling a cup she approached the bed upon which
Rachel lay. Then she stopped.

"I can't do it," she cried. "I can't touch her."

Again the moan came from the poor parched lips: "Water! Water!"

"I must," decided the girl suppressing the repugnance that swept over
her. "What if I were old and sick? I should want to be taken care of. I
may look just as bad if I have the small pox. And she cared for my
mother."

Resolutely she slipped her arm under Rachel's neck, thus lifting her
head, and held the water to her lips. As she did so all her fear and
loathing left her, and in their place came an infinite pity and
tenderness. The sick woman turned from the cup at first, but after a
little had passed her lips, she quaffed the rest eagerly and sank back
on her pillow with a sigh of content.

"I'll just have to stay with her," mused Bee replacing the cup on the
table, and seating herself by the bed. "She needs some one here to look
after her, and I'll have to do it. How queer it is that nobody is here!"

The long hot afternoon wore away. The woman's thirst was excessive, and
Bee was kept busy ministering to it. As the night approached she sought
for a lamp, but could find nothing but a tallow candle with a tin
holder.

"It will be awfully dim," she soliloquized, "but it is much better than
to sit in the dark. There will be enough light to give her water when
she wants it. I wish I knew what else to do for the poor thing."

It was not a pleasant position for a girl to be in, and, as the shadows
lengthened in the corners of the cabin, Bee was obliged to summon all
her fortitude to face the prospect of a night alone with a very sick
woman.

Meantime Adele had hurried to the house as fast as she could go.

"I'll tell Uncle William all about it," she decided, going at once in
search of him. "He will know better what to do than Bee does."

But no Uncle William was to be found. Aunt Fanny thought he had gone for
a walk; so, hot and tired, and somewhat upset by the episode of the
afternoon, Adele went up to her cool chamber and threw herself on the
bed.

"I'm not going down to that old hut and carry a lot of things," she said
aloud peevishly. "Bee ought not to have gone in that place anyway. Mamma
wouldn't want me to mix up in such things, I know. So there!"

Arranging the pillows more to her taste she settled herself comfortably
among them. She was tired, and presently a delicious drowsiness stole
over her, and soon she was fast asleep.

"Kum down ter dinnah, child," Aunt Fanny roused her by saying. "I'se
called, an' called, an' yer didn't answah; so I kum up. Whar's Miss Bee?
You-all's kept dinnah waitin' twel hit am plum dahk. Whar'd you say Miss
Bee was?"

"I don't--" Adele looked about her dreamily. "Oh!" as remembrance came
to her. She sprang up in a hurry. "Yes; I do. Is Uncle William here?"

"Yes'm; he's heah." Aunt Fanny was plainly provoked that dinner had been
kept waiting. "He's heah, but he won't set down twel you gals is dere."

For a wonder Adele did not stop to rearrange her hair, but ran down as
she was.

"Where is Beatrice?" asked Doctor Raymond, a slight expression of
surprise showing itself in his glance. His niece did not usually appear
in such a disordered condition. "Aunt Fanny could not find her, and
said that you were fast asleep in your room. What have you been doing?"

"We went to Rachel's," replied Adele, "and, and--"

"Yes?" remarked he questioningly.

"And she has the small pox. Or, at least," correcting herself hastily,
"there was the sign of small pox on the door."

"Is that true, Adele?" Doctor Raymond looked at her searchingly. "Or is
that an excuse invented for not going in?"

"It is the truth, Uncle William; but Bee did go in."

"What?" cried Doctor Raymond, springing to his feet. "Do you mean to
tell me that, seeing that sign there, you still went in?"

"I didn't, uncle. Bee did. She said that you didn't want to see us again
until we could tell you truthfully that we had been to Rachel's; so she
said that she must go."

"The foolish girl!" ejaculated her father. "Why could not she use
judgment? Call her, Adele, while I send Uncle Billy right off for the
doctor. We must all be vaccinated, and the house fumigated thoroughly.
It will be a miracle if every darkey on the place doesn't come down with
the disease."

"She isn't here, Uncle William." Adele laid a detaining hand on his arm.

"She isn't? Then where is she? She surely did not remain at Rachel's?"

"No; she would not come back here because she was afraid that she might
give you and me the small pox. She said that she would go to the old
fisherman's hut down by the river, and stay there."

"Beatrice was afraid that she would give it to us, and so would not
return here?" repeated the scientist as though he had not heard aright.
"She said that, Adele?"

"Why, yes," answered Adele. Rapidly she related the incident in its
entirety, concluding with: "She said that she could have it in the hut,
and then we would be safe."

"I'll go right after her," cried he, an unusual warmth in his tone. He
started for the door, and again his niece detained him.

"Are you going to bring Bee here to this house after she has been in
that cabin?" she asked in horrified tones, her face very white.

"Certainly. She can't stay in an empty hut."

"But, but she might give me the small pox," she whimpered.

"Of course she might," exclaimed her uncle impatiently. "The child can't
stay in that place even though she gives it to every one of us. She may
have it herself."

"You could take some blankets and pillows down there for her," she
suggested eagerly. "That is what she told me to do this afternoon. Then
if she does have it she won't have to come back here."

A look of supreme disgust swept over Doctor Raymond's face. Quietly he
removed her hand from his arm.

"My daughter will come back here," he said.

"Then I want to go home," sobbed Adele. "Bee herself don't want me to
have the small pox, because she kissed me, and said that it would be a
pity for me to lose my beauty. And I promised to be good to you, but you
are not a bit nice to me. It doesn't matter about her. She said it
didn't. You don't care for her anyway. Oh, I want to go home!"

"I think that is the very best place for you," remarked her uncle in a
quiet voice. "I will order the carriage as I go out, and Joel will drive
you there. If you do not wish to be here when your cousin returns you
must be quick about getting away. I am going for her now."

Without another word, or look in her direction he left the room.

A short time later Bee was sitting on the door-step of the cabin trying
to get relief from the fetid air of the interior when she heard
foot-steps hurrying along the path through the woods which led to the
dwelling. Soon someone called:

"Beatrice!"

"Father!" she cried joyfully, starting to her feet.

"I am coming to you." Doctor Raymond's tall figure entered the clearing
in which the cabin stood. A sudden thought came to the girl. If he
entered the house he might get the dreadful disease. Quick as a flash
she darted inside, and closed and locked the door just as he reached the
step.

"Beatrice, what does this mean?" asked her father trying the door.

"Father," called Bee, "you must go away. You can't come in. Rachel has
the small pox, and if you come in you may get it."

"I do not fear, my daughter. I have come to take you home."

"I can not go, father. Rachel is all alone, and she seems to be awfully
sick."

"Isn't Tillie there?"

"No. There is no one here but me."

"Have you been there all afternoon alone with Rachel?"

"Yes," returned Bee simply.

"Child, you must not stay there alone. Let me watch with you."

"Father, please go away," pleaded Bee. "I don't mind being alone; at
least not now," she added honestly. "It would break my heart if you
should have the small pox."

"Think of yourself, my daughter. You may have it, too."

"It is too late to think of that, father. There is no need for you to
run such a risk. I don't want you to do it."

"Beatrice, this is nonsense!" exclaimed her father sharply. "I won't
have you there alone, open the door instantly!"

"Dear, dear father, please go away. Do not ask me to let you in, for I
will not," said the girl pleadingly, steeling her heart against the
solicitude in his voice which, despite his gruffness, was plainly
evident.

"Hello!" called the bluff, cheery accents of a man from somewhere
without. "What are you doing here, sir? Don't you know that there is
small pox in this cabin?"




Chapter XXIV

"You are a Noble Little Girl"

    "We live in deeds, not years, in thoughts, not breaths;
    In feelings, not in figures on a dial.
    We should count time by heart-throbs. He most lives
    Who thinks most, feels the noblest, acts the best."

    --_Philip James Bailey._


"I am aware of the fact," was Doctor Raymond's reply. "How did you hear
of it, Doctor Black?"

"Why, Raymond, is that you? What in the world brought you here? I tacked
up a sign today to keep idiots out. It did not have the desired effect,
it seems."

Beatrice felt her face flush at the words, but there was a laugh in her
father's voice as he responded:

"I have a daughter in there, doctor, who may take exception to that
remark."

"Your daughter? What is she doing there? Didn't you know any better
than to let her go to such a place? I have been busy all day vaccinating
people, and taking means to prevent the disease from spreading. It is
just such things that undo a physician's precautions. Why did you permit
it?"

"I was not consulted in the matter," was the response. "My daughter came
down with food for Rachel, and finding her alone remained to be of
service."

"Good gracious, what could she do? Tillie left as soon as she found what
was the matter. Nobody knows where the old woman contracted the disease.
I brought Hannah here with me to nurse her. She has had it and therefore
is not afraid of it. I must say, though, that I hadn't bargained for
this complication. Has Beatrice had it?"

"I think not, doctor."

"Then she must be gotten out of there. Come, Hannah! We will go in now."

"I fear that you will find some difficulty in doing so, doctor. Beatrice
has locked the door to keep me out."

"Thunderation!" exclaimed the doctor. "I can't be delayed by any such
nonsense. Open this door," he commanded pounding upon it with his
fists.

The door rattled violently under his vigorous shaking. Bee knew that she
must open it, but she resolved to win the doctor to her side if
possible.

"Doctor Black," she called.

"Well? Are you going to keep me out here all night, young lady?" he
demanded bluntly. "I've had a busy day, and I want to get home. Quit
your fooling, and unlock this door."

"Yes, doctor; but do you think it wise for father to come in? Promise to
keep him out and I'll open it. Otherwise,--" The pause was so
significant that the physician chuckled.

"He shan't come in, child. If he does I'll vaccinate him in four
places," he declared energetically. "You hear, Raymond?"

"I hear, doctor, and accept the condition. If I did not that 'otherwise'
means that Beatrice will fight it out on the stand she has taken if it
takes all night."

"Your father will stay out, Miss Beatrice. Now open the door."

Beatrice gladly obeyed. The physician entered briskly, followed by a
tall colored woman.

"Well, Miss Bee," he said genially with a searching glance at her pale
face, "you've had rather a siege of it, haven't you? How long have you
been here?"

"All this afternoon," answered Bee, conscious all at once of being very
tired. She sat down suddenly, and asked weakly: "What are you going to
do?"

"To vaccinate you, my young lady," was the response. "Hoity Toity!" as
the girl turned pale. "What's this? Why, you're not afraid, are you?
Tut, tut! Don't you know that it takes more courage to stay for hours
with a woman with the small pox that to endure a little scratch?"

"I am not afraid," faltered Bee who was trembling excessively.

"I see." The physician patted her hand reassuringly. "Why did you stay
here, child? There was nothing you could do for Rachel."

"Nothing but to give her a drink. She was so thirsty."

"You don't mean that you raised her head and gave her water, do you?"
exclaimed he in surprise.

"Why, of course. How else could she drink?" asked Bee. "She couldn't
raise it herself."

"Weren't you a bit afraid?" Doctor Black had rolled up her sleeve, and
was selecting a vaccine point carefully.

"At first I was; then I was sorry for her. I might look just as bad if I
should have it, you know."

"You are not going to have it, my dear," he said brusquely. "Now give me
that arm. All ready. Just a scratch, and it is over. Well, bless my
soul! Raymond!"

For Beatrice had quietly fainted away. When consciousness returned to
her the sweet freshness of the summer night was about her; the soft
darkness enveloped her like a mantle, and she was being borne along
carefully in someone's arms. For a time she lay, content to be still in
the encircling arms, but as she became more herself wonder crept into
her heart, and she put up her hand and touched the face above her.

"Father?" she whispered.

"Yes, my daughter."

"How came I here, and why do you carry me?"

"I am taking you home, Beatrice. You fainted. Do you not remember?"

"Oh, yes." The girl was silent for a moment, and then she asked, "did
you go in the cabin?"

"I did, Beatrice. I went after you, but do not be alarmed. Dr. Black
made me submit to vaccination. I have been exposed many times, and have
no fear of the disease."

"You are sure, father?"

"Yes, my daughter."

Once more there was silence, but presently the girl's attention was
attracted by his labored breathing.

"You must not carry me. I am too heavy," she cried slipping from his
arms to the ground.

"Are you strong enough to walk, child? It is only the heat that makes me
pant; not your weight."

"I am quite strong enough," answered Bee, but he still kept his arm
about her, and so they proceeded homeward. Once more Beatrice broke the
stillness, the darkness giving her courage.

"You were good to come to me tonight, father. I haven't deserved it.
Oh! you don't know how bad I have felt about losing that butterfly."

"Never mind about it, Beatrice. I think we each have something to
forgive the other. I have my confession to make also. I have judged you
wrongly in many ways. There are many things that are becoming plain to
me. I can only excuse myself by saying that I was more ignorant of the
nature of a girl than even I knew. Can you forgive me?"

"There is nothing to forgive, father," cried Bee quickly, not quite
comprehending his meaning but grasping the fact that they were to be
friends.

"You are generous, Beatrice. But here we are at home. Go to your room,
change your clothes and bring them to me as I wish to burn them. We are
going to use every precaution against the spread of the disease, and
while I am vaccinating the servants, you must go directly to bed. The
afternoon has been a severe tax upon you."

"I am not a bit tired now," said Bee, who was happier than she had been
for a long time.

"You do not realize the strain that you have been under, my daughter."

"Adele!" exclaimed Bee coming to a standstill. "Ought we to go in,
father?"

"Adele is not here," answered he tersely. "She left for home as I went
after you."

"I am glad of it," sighed Bee with relief. "Then there won't be the
least doubt about her safety. Aren't you glad, too, father?"

"Yes;" replied William Raymond shortly, and there was that in his voice
which kept the girl from saying anything more. It was long before she
knew of the conversation between her father and her cousin.

"Good-night, my daughter," said Doctor Raymond with unwonted emotion,
drawing her to him as she brought him the clothing as he desired, and
prepared to withdraw to her own room. "I wonder if you realize what you
have done today?"

"Yes;" answered Bee, looking up quickly, but her alarm subdued as she
saw the light in his eyes. "I have done my level best to give every one
in the house small pox; but, father, I'll--"

"There, child! go to bed and forget all about it. You are a noble little
girl." Bending forward he kissed her tenderly.

Wondering and happy the girl retired, almost incredulous of the joy that
had come to her.




Chapter XXV

The Door Is Opened

    "Butterfly-haunted, the great purple asters
      Throng, gold-hearted, the edge of the road;
    Low to the grass the green boughs of the orchard
      Heavily droop with their ruddy-hued load."

    --_Marian Warner Wildman._


Every precaution was used to prevent the small pox from obtaining a
foothold in Walnut Grove, and so efficacious were the measures adopted
by Doctor Raymond and the physician, Doctor Black, that the household
escaped unscathed. Old Rachel died; and, as hers proved to be the sole
case in the community, it could only be conjectured how she had taken
the disease.

The solicitude manifested by the scientist for his daughter at this
period established very tender relations between them. After the pangs
and heart burnings of the summer it seemed like paradise to Bee. As it
became apparent that the small pox was not to attack his household
Doctor Raymond became once more absorbed in his labors, and remained
such long hours in his study that Beatrice could not but wonder at it.

She was pondering the matter one morning as she went to the study door
with her usual nosegay of flowers. She had not yet received permission
to re-enter the room, and had been puzzled about getting the blossoms to
him, but had solved the question by placing a small stand by the door,
and setting the matutinal offering upon it. Upon this particular morning
as she stood arranging the bouquet more to her liking the door opened,
and her father appeared on the threshold.

"Bring in the flowers yourself, Beatrice," he said.

"May I?" cried Bee flushing rosy red with pleasure. "Am I really to go
in at last, father?"

"Yes, my daughter. Your place is waiting for you."

Gladly, yet almost timidly, Bee entered the study. It seemed a long,
long time since she had been in it, yet in reality it was but a few
weeks. With eyes that misted she glanced lovingly at the familiar
objects: the books, the manuscripts, her father's chair, and lastly at
her own place at the table. Before it lay her pencil and note book.

"It has been waiting for you, Beatrice," said

Doctor Raymond with a smile noting her glance. "I have missed my little
helper."

"Have you, father?" she asked shyly.

"Very much, my child. You kept yourself constantly in my mind by your
flowers. I liked the attention. Your mother used to do that too. You are
like her in many ways."

"Rachel told me that she did," said Bee. "That is the reason I did it.
That and because I liked to. Am I really to help you again, father?"

"Yes; although there is not much more to do. We are nearly at the end of
the cataloguing. The larv? have all entered the pupa state, and--when
the last of them come out, which will be in a few days, we have only to
classify and catalogue them which will end the work. I am boxing the
collection ready for shipping to the University. Let us go see the new
butterflies, Beatrice, before we begin work. I have not been in the
laboratory this morning."

Bee turned at once toward the laboratory, but as she reached the door
she paused hesitatingly, a remembrance of the last time when she had
lost the rare specimen clouding her pleasure.

"You have learned your lesson, Beatrice," spoke her father gently. "I
feel sure that never again will you be guilty of carelessness. Let us
think no more about it." He opened the door as he spoke, and they went
in.

The caterpillars had disappeared. A few chrysalids depended from some
twigs, and a number of butterflies, like flowers reft from their stems,
were flickering and pursuing each other in the sunshine which streamed
through the windows. They settled, and Bee stole softly toward them and
gently shook the thistles upon which they rested. The delicate creatures
rose once more. Round and round they flew like great yellow and bronze
and purple flowers, then softly, quietly settled again.

"How beautiful they are!" exclaimed Bee. "Is there another insect so
pretty, I wonder?"

"Not to me," he replied. "Perhaps it is because of our interest in them
that they appear so to us."

So it came about that Beatrice became her father's helper once more. Her
studies were resumed, and the old delightful intimacy that had prevailed
before the coming of Adele was renewed with a completer understanding of
each other on the part of both father and daughter. The cataloguing
progressed with rapidity. There came a day when Doctor Raymond laid down
his manuscript with something approaching a sigh.

"That ends your work, Beatrice," he said. "The cataloguing is ended. Now
go for a walk while I box up the last case of specimens. No; you can not
help me in that. You have already been of great assistance. I do not
know how I should have gotten along without you."

Well pleased by his words Beatrice left the house, and sauntered down
the road, past the place formerly occupied by the Medullas, and on
toward her favorite grove, sometimes pausing to pluck an early aster, or
spray of golden rod blooming along the dusty roadside. A stillness that
no bird note disturbed, for the birds that had not already departed were
clustered about those places where dripping springs were to be found,
prevailed throughout the cool recesses of the grove. The girl flung
herself down under an oak tree, idly watching the impatient tapping of a
squirrel in the branches above at the still resisting acorns. The
monotony of the soulless sunshine became irksome. The spirit of the
furred and feathered folk of the woods was stealing into her. Like them
she was heartily tired of the summer, and half stifled in the wornout
atmosphere of the sleepy silent August day.

"I am glad that tomorrow is the first day of September," she exclaimed,
sitting up and speaking aloud. "It is so hot. I want a change!"

At this moment a bright bit of color fluttered through the air and
dropped in the grass by her side.

"It's a butterfly," cried Bee. "A poor little butterfly that has come to
the end of its life."

She bent over the dainty insect and lifted it gently. A cry of delight
escaped her lips as she looked at it. The insect moved its wings
slightly, disclosing its gorgeous colorings.

"It's father's Teinopalpus Imperialis! It's the butterfly that I lost!"
she exclaimed joyfully. "It's father's rare specimen!"

She sprang up and ran to the house as fast as she could.

"Father, father," she called excitedly, bursting into the study. "See! I
have found your butterfly!"

"My butterfly, Beatrice?" Doctor Raymond glanced up from a letter he was
reading. His daughter was too intent upon the finding of the insect to
note that his face was very grave. "What do you mean?"

"The one I lost," cried Bee holding the creature toward him. "See the
spots on the wings, and these markings on the secondaries! It is the
very one, isn't it?"

"It certainly looks like it." The naturalist took the insect and
examined it critically. "Where did you find it?"

"I was in the grove," explained Bee. "All at once this butterfly
fluttered down by my side. I saw that it was yours so I brought it home
at once."

"Look!" he said. "The butterfly is not dead, though I question if it
lives long. The life of the longest lived is but short at best. Get
some honey and water, and let us see if we can revive it."

Bee brought the honey and water and watched closely as her father took a
long, slender needle and carefully unwound the proboscis of the insect
inserting it in the honey mixture. At first the little creature scarcely
knew what to make of the proceeding, but soon it began to suck the fluid
eagerly. Then it rose from his hand and flew about the room, returning
almost immediately to the saucer of sweets.

"Will it live?" asked Bee much interested.

"I hardly think so. I have known of a few cases where their lives were
prolonged beyond the natural limit by artificial means, but it does not
happen often. I fear this one is too far gone. If not, you will have a
butterfly pet."

But alas! even as he spoke the butterfly gave a convulsive quiver and
lay still.

"It's gone," said the naturalist, lifting it carefully.

"You can keep it for your collection, can't you, father?"

"Yes; I will keep it, Beatrice. Of course I can not say positively that
it is the very same Teinopalpus Imperialis that I hatched from the egg
myself, but I believe that it is the one. For, how should such a choice
specimen exist here when it is so rarely found in its native haunts?
Could it be possible--"

He paused, thoughtfully gazing at the dead butterfly. He roused himself
presently and turned toward her.

"I am glad that you returned as you did, my daughter. Joel brought the
mail, and there are matters to be discussed between us."

For the first time Beatrice noticed his grave looks.

"Father," she cried in alarm. "What is it? Something has happened. You
are not, you are not--" a sudden dread piercing her heart, "going away?"

There was so much anguish and appeal in her cry that Doctor Raymond held
out his arms to her. "My child," he said, drawing her close to him, "I
must. You remember that I shortened the term of years I promised the
University to spend abroad? It is a matter of honor to fulfill my
agreement with them; for, while they would release me if I wished, it
would put them to a great deal of trouble to get another man. The chief
difficulty lies in the fact that no other could know the ground as I
do. Do I make myself clear about this, Beatrice?"

"Yes;" came from Bee's white lips, briefly.

"I thought that you would understand my position. The reason for my
going being therefore defined, the question remains as to what
disposition is to be made of you? I am not altogether satisfied to let
you remain with your uncle's family for many reasons; chief among them
being that I believe that your interests are subordinated to Adele's.
That, I presume, is highly natural for them, but scarcely gratifying to
me. Therefore, I have thought of placing you in college."

"College?" repeated the girl mechanically, hardly hearing what he was
saying. But one thought was in her mind. He was going away! He was going
to leave her for two long years! It sounded in her ears like a refrain:
two long years!

"College life will appeal to one of your mind. I wish you to become a
fine, lovable woman, Beatrice. The problem of molding you into such a
character is a vital one to me. A healthful body, a thoughtful mind, a
good heart are three things which every girl should have in common with
her brothers. These you have, and it is my desire that they shall be so
trained that they will merge into gracious womanhood. This much have you
taught me, Beatrice: that there is a charm greater than that of beauty.
I would rather have this head with its mottled tresses--" He bent his
head and touched her hair with his lips caressingly,--"than all the
golden locks in the world."

Bee choked. As always when deeply stirred she could not speak. A
numbness clutched at her heart and held her still and cold. A lump in
her throat would not down. Presently her father continued:

"Our summer has been full of unfortunate misunderstandings, and, I fear,
of much unhappiness for you. Could we begin over, that is, provided I
had my present knowledge, I believe that such misunderstandings could be
avoided. I have been blind to many things, child."

"And now," burst from Bee, the fullness of her heart finding vent at
last in passionate, pleading protest, "now just as we have learned to
understand each other you are going away. Father, father! I have had you
such a little while. Only three short months out of my whole life! Oh,
do take me with you! I'll be so good, so good. I'll try so hard to be
all that you wish. Do take me, father. I cannot let you go."

"It is my dearest wish, Beatrice," spoke her father huskily. "But I can
not."

"Is it that I would be in the way? Or don't you trust me? I would be
very careful of your specimens, father. Could I not be of some use to
you?"

"You could help me in many ways, Beatrice. Not only in my work but by
your loving companionship. It was my intention to take you with me until
the past few days. Then matters came up that made it not feasible. I
still hoped, but that letter which came a short time since has confirmed
the necessity for leaving you."

"Dear father, tell me what the matter is? Why can't you take me? Tell me
the reason."

"I had hoped to keep it from you, my child," said Doctor Raymond with
some embarrassment. "I have been obliged to dismiss the idea for lack of
means. I have never been what you might call a money-getter, Beatrice.
Few scientists are. What money I have had has been invested in such
manner as to give us an income sufficient for our needs. Recently those
investments failed, and I have now only the salary that the University
pays me. The letter informs me that there is nothing left. My salary
will pay your expenses at college and leave a residue for my needs very
nicely. Dear child, it would not be sufficient for travel. Do you
understand matters now, Beatrice?"

"Yes, oh, yes;" uttered Bee brokenly. "I'll try to bear it, father,
but--but--"

"That is my brave little daughter," he said in such a tender voice that
Bee's tears gushed forth anew. "When next we are together perhaps I may
be able to make you happier than I have this summer. Go now, my child;
think over the matter. We will talk of it again."

He bent abruptly over some specimens, and Beatrice, sobbing quietly,
left the room.




Chapter XXVI

A Great Surprise

                              "The life we choose
    Breathes high, and sees a full-arched firmament.
    Our deeds shall speak like rock-hewn messages,
    Teaching great purpose to the distant time."

    --_George Eliot._


To the young all things are tragic. To Beatrice it seemed that the end
of everything had come. Now she realized that behind her objection to
Adele's presence in her home there had lurked the fear that her father's
stay would be short.

She shed no more tears, but her dry-eyed grief was more distressing for
that very reason. If Doctor Raymond hoped to talk matters over again he
reckoned without his host, for Beatrice could not speak of the
separation. The scientist was very busy and had little leisure to devote
to his daughter, but he noted with concern her lack of interest in
everything.

"Beatrice," he said to her one day, "you need some one with you. I am
obliged to be away a great deal just now, and it is lonely for you. Your
aunt has kindly consented to superintend the preparation of your
wardrobe, and it might be wise for you to spend the remaining time
there. Either that or else they must come here."

"Let them come here, father. I--I don't want to leave home before I
must."

There were no tears in her voice, but something in it caused her father
to say, not quite steadily:

"My daughter, be brave. Don't make it hard for me."

Beatrice looked at him quickly.

"Is it hard for you, father?"

"Harder than I would like you to know, child. You know why I must go.
Let us not dwell on the unpleasant part of it. After all, two years are
nothing. After the first hurt of the separation is over you will find
new interests, and life will once more become rosy. You are going to be
brave, aren't you?"

"Yes, father," answered Bee steadily.

"That is my good little daughter. Today I will bring Adele and her
mother over, and they will cheer you up. It will benefit Henry also to
have the change."

"Very well," answered the girl trying to smile.

She had not seen her cousin since she left her outside old Rachel's
cabin, and when evening brought Adele once more to Walnut Grove a dull
wonder crept into her heart that her coming was not fraught with pain.

To her surprise there was a great difference in the manner of both her
father and her cousin toward each other. Adele no longer made pert
sallies at his expense after the manner of a petted child; she seemed
rather subdued toward him. Bee did not fully comprehend how dissimilar
was their attitude for some days, and then she came slowly to see that
while Doctor Raymond was unfailingly courteous toward his niece it was
to her he turned, to her wishes that he deferred. It came to her with a
sort of shock that it was she herself who was first with him.

"Why! he loves me best. Father loves me best!" she said to herself in
surprise. "How has it come?"

To her wonder Adele treated the fact as a matter of course, but as a
full realization of the truth came to Bee her unhappiness at his going
increased.

"I wish I were going to college," cried Adele one day, fluttering about
a number of parcels that had just arrived. "I never saw such a lot of
hats and gowns. You will be the best dressed girl there, Bee."

"Will I?" asked Bee indifferently. Pretty frocks were all very well in
their place, but they did not relieve the ache in her heart.

"You don't care a thing about them," declared her cousin. "You are such
a funny girl! Isn't she, mamma?"

"A little inclined so," answered Mrs. Raymond, who delighted in pretty
clothes. "Bee, do take more interest. It is ungrateful not to appreciate
what your father is doing for you. Now, Adele cares a great deal more
about her appearance than you do about yours, yet I should not get her
so many things. Of course William knows that you need more dressing is
the reason he is so liberal."

"No, Aunty," returned Bee. "Father is not generous because of that, but
because he wishes to make up to me for his absence."

And with the utterance of these words it became clear to her that this
was in truth the reason. That he was not quite easy in his mind
regarding her, and sought this means to relieve the feeling. A quick
gush of tenderness flooded her being.

"I must be brave," she told herself over and over. "It distresses him
because I am unhappy. I must be brave."

"Bee," spoke Adele sharply, "what in the world are you mooning about?
Mamma has spoken to you twice."

"I beg your pardon, aunty," said Bee contritely. "I did not hear you. I
was thinking."

"You should conquer that habit of inattentiveness," chided her aunt. "I
notice that it is growing on you. What has come over you, Bee? I never
saw such a change in a girl in all my life!"

"Am I so changed?" asked Bee wistfully.

"Well; you are so thoughtful and quiet. You used to be so merry, you
know."

"It's father, aunty," cried the girl, bursting into tears. "I am trying
to be brave, but oh, Aunt Annie! my heart is breaking."

The lady drew her to her and kissed her.

"It doesn't do to have so much feeling, child," she said. "There! dry
your eyes, and look at this tweed. It will make a handsome traveling
gown."

"Yes;" broke in Adele ecstatically, while Bee wiped her eyes, and
endeavored to interest herself in the dress. "There are to be gloves,
hat and shoes in keeping. The girls would call it swell. And, Bee, we
are all going to New York with Uncle William to see him off. Won't it be
fine to be in New York City? You better believe that I'm not coming back
without seeing some of the sights."

"I think we shall all be willing to do that, Adele," smiled her mother.

So the talk went on. Bee was fitted with wraps, gowns, hats, and other
things considered necessary until her head whirled with the
multitudinous furnishings, and all the world seemed to resolve itself
into one vast dressmaking shop created solely for her benefit.

"Another, aunty?" she asked wearily one morning as Mrs. Raymond called
her into the sewing room for a fitting.

"Yes; this is the very last one, child; and a beauty it is too."

"I do not think that I ever had so many dresses in all my life
together," observed the girl. "What am I to do with them all?"

"You will find use for everything when you reach the college, Beatrice,"
smiled the lady. "This one is for evening. There are many social
functions, and of course you will take part in them. It is tiresome, I
know, to fit all these things but you will be glad later that you have
them."

"I may be," answered Bee. "I am not ungrateful, aunty, for all that you
are doing, only just now it seems as though there were ever so many more
than I will need. And," she added with a troubled look and speaking in a
lower tone, "are you sure that father can afford to spend so much on
me?"

"You absurd child!" exclaimed Mrs. Raymond with misty eyes. "Of course
he can. I think myself that he is doing more than is necessary, but it
pleases him, Bee, so accept it for the pleasure it gives him."

"But if he is denying himself," began Bee, but they were interrupted by
the entrance of Aunt Fanny.

"Dose satanic gen'mun dat wuz heah ter dinnah dat time dey is all
downstairs, an' dey say dey wants ter see Miss Bee," she announced.

"Isn't it father?" asked Bee in astonishment. "He is in the library,
Aunt Fanny. You mean him, don't you?"

"No'm; I doesn't. Dey said Miss Beatrice Raymond," answered the negress
pompously. "Jest like dat: Miss Beatrice Raymond."

"Better run down, Bee," suggested her aunt. "I dare say that they wish
to see you again as this may be their last visit before William goes."

So wonderingly Beatrice went down to the library. They were all there.
The four scientists whom she had entertained with the Butterfly Dinner
that now seemed so long ago. They arose at her entrance and greeted her
cordially albeit with some embarrassment. Her father, too, appeared
moved out of his ordinary composure.

"Miss Raymond," spoke one of the naturalists, "we have sent for
you--that is--we have never forgotten that dinner, and as a token of
our appreciation--"

"You are all wrong, Davis," broke in another. "It isn't a token at all.
It is her natural right."

"You see," exclaimed the shy man whom Bee remembered so well, "that we
were astonished when we learned how you had helped to catalogue the
specimens which your father brought back, and we realize how much help
you can be to him; so we think--"

"In short," announced the first speaker, "we wish you to accompany your
father as his secretary; all expenses to be borne by the University.
Will you accept?"

"I--What do you mean?" gasped Bee, clasping her hands and breathing
quickly.

"Just what we say, Miss Beatrice. You have done a good work this summer,
and we believe that with your leaning toward science it would be of
great benefit to you and to ourselves also to send you with Doctor
Raymond to help him in his work. The faculty decided upon this move
unknown to your father, and have sent us as a committee to ask your
acceptance."

"My acceptance?" came from Bee in a sob as she turned blindly toward
her father. "Oh, father, father! you tell them."

"Gentlemen," said Doctor Raymond unsteadily, "in my daughter's name I
thank you. She accepts with pleasure, and will endeavor to discharge the
duties entrusted to her with faithfulness. As for myself--" He paused,
unable to finish.

"Nonsense, Raymond! you needed some one to look after you. We shall
expect the finest collection that is on this continent with her to help
you. It is for our benefit that we are doing this. Now let's settle some
of the details, if Miss Raymond is able to attend to them."

"Oh, yes;" laughed Bee through her tears. "I can do anything now."




Chapter XXVII

Ready for the Voyage

    "Like unto ships far off at sea,
    Outward or homeward bound, are we.

    Ah! if our souls but poise and swing
    Like the compass in its brazen ring,
    Ever level and ever true
    To the toil and task we have to do
    We shall sail securely, and safely reach
    The Fortunate Isles with their shining beach."

    --_Longfellow._


The crystalline air, sparkling with the salt of the Atlantic, swept up
the bay and stirred the waters of the North River into restlessness,
causing the great steamer to tug impatiently at her moorings as though
anxious to begin the voyage. Upon the promenade deck of the vessel stood
Mr. and Mrs. Henry Raymond, Doctor Raymond, and the two cousins, Adele
and Beatrice; for the time of departure had come.

It still lacked some time of the hour for sailing, and Adele called
excited directions to Bee as they waited, or made hurried little
excursions to the other side of the boat to see what was taking place
there.

"You must keep my roses until the very last, Bee," she said. "And there
is a box of chocolates in the top of your steamer trunk. I put them
there myself. Be sure you think of me when you eat them. Don't you want
to try your new rug? I don't believe that it will be half warm enough.
And, oh, Bee! do write every day, and tell me everything. Everything! Do
you hear? I wish I were going."

"Well, you will have a nice time in New York anyway," consoled Bee, who
was trying very hard not to be excited. "Doesn't the city look
beautiful?"

"It's wonderful!" agreed Adele ecstatically. "Next to going to Egypt I
would rather be here than anywhere. How tall the buildings are!"

"Aren't they?" answered Bee with enthusiasm. "They seem just like cliffs
with swallows nests in them. The buildings, the crowds, the shops, and
now this great steamer, and all the other vessels seem marvelous to me.
Just look what a picture it makes, Adele."

Adele leaned over the railing of the iron-girted steamer, and looked
long and earnestly at the wondrous city lying under the flicker of
Liberty's torch.

The rugged sky line along the western shore of the city was indeed
picturesque under the afternoon sun. The sky was of deepest blue with
not a cloud to mar its brilliancy. The silver and gray waters of the bay
were dotted with crafts of every description. Saucy tugs darted hither
and thither watching for opportunities to offer their services to some
great liner to put out from its dock; ferry boats plied unceasingly
between the New York and the Jersey shores; excursion steamers crowded
with pleasure seekers passed and repassed until one would suppose the
entire population of the city was on merrymaking bent. Sail boats, and
great steamers like their own filled the docks, or dotted the waters.

All West Street was crowded with people come to see the departure of the
liners. Across the broad plaza of the street came hansom cabs,
automobiles, coaches, and vehicles bristling with trunks and other
baggage; fruiterers' wagons scraped wheels with florists' vehicles, and
venders of every sort with their wares filled the spaces between in
search of possible purchasers.

Inside the pier the cabs threaded their way through freight piled
mountains high to canvas covered gangways leading to the first saloon.
The promenade deck was crowded with those who were to sail, and those
who had come to see them off. Some were walking up and down the deck
excitedly, others were standing about in groups. It was a busy, exciting
scene. One so new to the girls that they found the pain of parting
swallowed up in the excitement of the event. The older people, too, were
strangely silent, and seemed influenced by the bustle about them.

"You will come back so learned there will be no living with you,"
declared Adele presently, turning her back upon the confusion of the
wharf, and with a half envious note in her voice. "And a beauty, too, I
expect. You are almost that now, Bee, with your eyes shining so, and
that uplifted look on your face."

Bee gazed at her thoughtfully.

"Do you know, Adele," she said at length, "that I don't believe that I
shall ever want to be a beauty again. It is all true, just as everybody
told me; it doesn't matter in the least about looks, after all. When I
was thinking about that and nothing else, everything went wrong. But
when I thought about other people and giving them pleasure they tried to
do the same by me. Now that Butterfly Dinner: I didn't think of anything
in the world but giving those scientists a nice dinner, and a little
fun. Just see what it did for me! They have made me father's secretary.
Oh, I am going to try to be so good and so sweet that I will deserve all
this honor that has come to me!"

"And, and old Rachel's sickness when you helped her," supplemented
Adele, a slight flush stealing over her face at the recollection. "If
you hadn't gone in there to carry that basket your father would not have
wished you to go with him. Maybe, maybe, I will try to be less selfish
too, Bee. I haven't always been as nice to you as I ought to have been."

"Don't say a word about it," exclaimed Bee bending forward to kiss her.
"Everything has all turned out for the best. You have been just lovely
about my going, and helping, and all. If it were not for being with
father I should be very unhappy over leaving you; but so long as I am
with him I can't help but feel happy."

"What are our Bee and Butterfly conversing so earnestly about?" asked
Mrs. Raymond suddenly. "Adele, do you know that you must begin to say
good-bye to your cousin? By the time you girls have finished the whistle
will have blown. You know how long it takes you."

Adele looked up with eyes that swam with tears.

"And it will be two years," she murmured, giving Bee a big hug. "I do
hope that you will have a good time, Bee. If you see a pretty fan you
might send it to me. I just love those Egyptian things, and it will be
nice to show the girls. To think of your going so far! Be sure to write
me long letters. I don't believe that there will be another girl in
school who will have a correspondent in foreign parts. It is nice in
some ways, but I shall miss you."

"I'll send you just as many pretty things as I can," promised Bee. "I'll
never see anything that is real pretty that I won't think of you. You
must write long letters too, Adele, and tell me all about the girls, and
the school, and everything that happens. Oh, there is the warning!"

Adele clung to her for a moment, then as her father and mother hastily
exchanged good-byes with Bee she flung her arms about her uncle.

"You must be awfully good to Bee," she sobbed. "And bring her home safe.
Oh, I do wish you were not going!"

Doctor Raymond kissed her gently without replying, and the three left
the boat.

The big vessel stirred sluggishly, and then with a hip! hip! hurrah!
from the sailors swung out from the pier, backed into midstream and
headed for the bay and the ocean.

Bee drew near her father and slipped her hand into his. Together they
bent over the rail and waved their handkerchiefs at the little group on
the wharf. Adele was sobbing convulsively.

"I did not think she would mind so much," said Bee. "It is nice to be
loved like that, isn't it, father?"

"Yes;" he said, passing his arm about her. "She has just begun to
realize your worth. I think the knowledge of how dear you are to us has
just come to us all."

"Father," she cried, looking up at him lovingly, "you really like me a
great deal, I do believe."

"I should have been very unhappy had I been obliged to leave you,
Beatrice. It is not given to many men to have a dear little companion
who embodies so much wit and cleverness. I am proud of my little
daughter."

Bee was silent through sheer delight. And so they stood. The ship swept
through the narrows and into the lower bay. America was getting farther
and farther away, but she was too happy to care. The Summer had passed.
The cool breezes of Autumn blew refreshingly. Like the ocean the future
stretched before them, and they were sailing toward the unknown. But Bee
glanced at the tender, earnest face of her father, and felt no fear.
Whatever came she was his companion and helper, and she was content.













  

 

  THE FABLE OF THE CIGALE AND THE ANT                                 



  THE CIGALE LEAVES ITS BURROW                                      

 

  THE SONG OF THE CIGALE                                            



  THE CIGALE. THE EGGS AND THEIR HATCHING                             

 
  THE MANTIS. THE CHASE                                            



  THE MANTIS. COURTSHIP                                              



  THE MANTIS. THE NEST                                               

 

  THE GOLDEN GARDENER. ITS NUTRIMENT                                



  THE GOLDEN GARDENER. COURTSHIP                                    



  THE FIELD CRICKET                                                  



  THE ITALIAN CRICKET                                                

 

  THE SISYPHUS BEETLE. THE INSTINCT OF PATERNITY                    
 

  A BEE-HUNTER: THE _PHILANTHUS AVIPORUS_                            

  

  THE GREAT PEACOCK, OR EMPEROR MOTH                               

 

  THE OAK EGGAR, OR BANDED MONK                                    



  A TRUFFLE-HUNTER: THE _BOLBOCERAS GALLICUS_                      



  THE ELEPHANT-BEETLE                                               



  THE PEA-WEEVIL                                                    

  

  AN INVADER: THE HARICOT-WEEVIL                                    



  THE GREY LOCUST                                                    

 

  THE PINE-CHAFER                                                   








  THE MANTIS: A DUEL BETWEEN FEMALES; DEVOURING
  A CRICKET; DEVOURING HER MATE; IN HER ATTITUDE
  OF PRAYER; IN HER "SPECTRAL" ATTITUDE                     


  DURING THE DROUGHTS OF SUMMER THIRSTING INSECTS,
  AND NOTABLY THE ANT, FLOCK TO THE DRINKING-PLACES
  OF THE CIGALE                                                        

  THE CIGALE AND THE EMPTY PUPA-SKIN                                 

  THE ADULT CIGALE, FROM BELOW. THE CIGALE OF
  THE FLOWERING ASH, MALE AND FEMALE                                  

  THE CIGALE LAYING HER EGGS. THE GREEN GRASSHOPPER,
  THE FALSE CIGALE OF THE NORTH,
  DEVOURING THE TRUE CIGALE, A DWELLER IN
  THE SOUTH                                                          

  THE NEST OF THE PRAYING MANTIS; TRANSVERSE SECTION
  OF THE SAME; NEST OF EMPUSA PAUPERATA;
  TRANSVERSE SECTION OF THE SAME; VERTICAL
  SECTION OF THE SAME; NEST OF THE GREY MANTIS;
  SCHEFFER'S SISYPHUS (see Chap. XII.); PELLET OF
  THE SISYPHUS; PELLET OF THE SISYPHUS, WITH
  DEJECTA OF THE LARVA FORCED THROUGH THE
  WALLS                                                               

  THE MANTIS DEVOURING THE MALE IN THE ACT OF
  MATING; THE MANTIS COMPLETING HER NEST;
  GOLDEN SCARABÆI CUTTING UP A LOB-WORM                               

  THE GOLDEN GARDENER: THE MATING SEASON OVER,
  THE MALES ARE EVISCERATED BY THE FEMALES                          

  THE FIELD-CRICKET: A DUEL BETWEEN RIVALS; THE
  DEFEATED RIVAL RETIRES, INSULTED BY THE
  VICTOR                                                             

  THE ITALIAN CRICKET                                              

  THE GREAT PEACOCK OR EMPEROR MOTH                                  

  THE GREAT PEACOCK MOTH. THE PILGRIMS DIVERTED
  BY THE LIGHT OF A LAMP                                             

  THE GREY LOCUST; THE NERVATURES OF THE WING;
  THE BALANINUS FALLEN A VICTIM TO THE LENGTH
  OF HER PROBOSCIS                                                   

  THE PINE-CHAFER (_MELOLONTHA FULLO_)                               











THE FABLE OF THE CIGALE AND THE ANT


Fame is the daughter of Legend. In the world of creatures, as in the
world of men, the story precedes and outlives history. There are many
instances of the fact that if an insect attract our attention for this
reason or that, it is given a place in those legends of the people whose
last care is truth.

For example, who is there that does not, at least by hearsay, know the
Cigale? Where in the entomological world shall we find a more famous
reputation? Her fame as an impassioned singer, careless of the future,
was the subject of our earliest lessons in repetition. In short, easily
remembered lines of verse, we learned how she was destitute when the
winter winds arrived, and how she went begging for food to the Ant, her
neighbour. A poor welcome she received, the would-be borrower!--a
welcome that has become proverbial, and her chief title to celebrity.
The petty malice of the two short lines--

  Vous chantiez! j'en suis bien aise,
  Eh bien, dansez maintenant!

has done more to immortalise the insect than her skill as a musician.
"You sang! I am very glad to hear it! Now you can dance!" The words
lodge in the childish memory, never to be forgotten. To most
Englishmen--to most Frenchmen even--the song of the Cigale is unknown,
for she dwells in the country of the olive-tree; but we all know of the
treatment she received at the hands of the Ant. On such trifles does
Fame depend! A legend of very dubious value, its moral as bad as its
natural history; a nurse's tale whose only merit is its brevity; such is
the basis of a reputation which will survive the wreck of centuries no
less surely than the tale of Puss-in-Boots and of Little Red
Riding-Hood.

The child is the best guardian of tradition, the great conservative.
Custom and tradition become indestructible when confided to the archives
of his memory. To the child we owe the celebrity of the Cigale, of whose
misfortunes he has babbled during his first lessons in recitation. It is
he who will preserve for future generations the absurd nonsense of which
the body of the fable is constructed; the Cigale will always be hungry
when the cold comes, although there were never Cigales in winter; she
will always beg alms in the shape of a few grains of wheat, a diet
absolutely incompatible with her delicate capillary "tongue"; and in
desperation she will hunt for flies and grubs, although she never eats.

Whom shall we hold responsible for these strange mistakes? La Fontaine,
who in most of his fables charms us with his exquisite fineness of
observation, has here been ill-inspired. His earlier subjects he knew
down to the ground: the Fox, the Wolf, the Cat, the Stag, the Crow, the
Rat, the Ferret, and so many others, whose actions and manners he
describes with a delightful precision of detail. These are inhabitants
of his own country; neighbours, fellow-parishioners. Their life, private
and public, is lived under his eyes; but the Cigale is a stranger to the
haunts of Jack Rabbit. La Fontaine had never seen nor heard her. For him
the celebrated songstress was certainly a grasshopper.

Grandville, whose pencil rivals the author's pen, has fallen into the
same error. In his illustration to the fable we see the Ant dressed like
a busy housewife. On her threshold, beside her full sacks of wheat, she
disdainfully turns her back upon the would-be borrower, who holds out
her claw--pardon, her hand. With a wide coachman's hat, a guitar under
her arm, and a skirt wrapped about her knees by the gale, there stands
the second personage of the fable, the perfect portrait of a
grasshopper. Grandville knew no more than La Fontaine of the true
Cigale; he has beautifully expressed the general confusion.

But La Fontaine, in this abbreviated history, is only the echo of
another fabulist. The legend of the Cigale and the cold welcome of the
Ant is as old as selfishness: as old as the world. The children of
Athens, going to school with their baskets of rush-work stuffed with
figs and olives, were already repeating the story under their breath, as
a lesson to be repeated to the teacher. "In winter," they used to say,
"the Ants were putting their damp food to dry in the sun. There came a
starving Cigale to beg from them. She begged for a few grains. The
greedy misers replied: 'You sang in the summer, now dance in the
winter.'" This, although somewhat more arid, is precisely La Fontaine's
story, and is contrary to the facts.

Yet the story comes to us from Greece, which is, like the South of
France, the home of the olive-tree and the Cigale. Was Æsop really its
author, as tradition would have it? It is doubtful, and by no means a
matter of importance; at all events, the author was a Greek, and a
compatriot of the Cigale, which must have been perfectly familiar to
him. There is not a single peasant in my village so blind as to be
unaware of the total absence of Cigales in winter; and every tiller of
the soil, every gardener, is familiar with the first phase of the
insect, the larva, which his spade is perpetually discovering when he
banks up the olives at the approach of the cold weather, and he knows,
having seen it a thousand times by the edge of the country paths, how in
summer this larva issues from the earth from a little round well of its
own making; how it climbs a twig or a stem of grass, turns upon its
back, climbs out of its skin, drier now than parchment, and becomes the
Cigale; a creature of a fresh grass-green colour which is rapidly
replaced by brown.

We cannot suppose that the Greek peasant was so much less intelligent
than the Provençal that he can have failed to see what the least
observant must have noticed. He knew what my rustic neighbours know so
well. The scribe, whoever he may have been, who was responsible for the
fable was in the best possible circumstances for correct knowledge of
the subject. Whence, then, arose the errors of his tale?

Less excusably than La Fontaine, the Greek fabulist wrote of the Cigale
of the books, instead of interrogating the living Cigale, whose cymbals
were resounding on every side; careless of the real, he followed
tradition. He himself echoed a more ancient narrative; he repeated some
legend that had reached him from India, the venerable mother of
civilisations. We do not know precisely what story the reed-pen of the
Hindoo may have confided to writing, in order to show the perils of a
life without foresight; but it is probable that the little animal drama
was nearer the truth than the conversation between the Cigale and the
Ant. India, the friend of animals, was incapable of such a mistake.
Everything seems to suggest that the principal personage of the original
fable was not the Cigale of the Midi, but some other creature, an insect
if you will, whose manners corresponded to the adopted text.

Imported into Greece, after long centuries during which, on the banks of
the Indus, it made the wise reflect and the children laugh, the ancient
anecdote, perhaps as old as the first piece of advice that a father of a
family ever gave in respect of economy, transmitted more or less
faithfully from one memory to another, must have suffered alteration in
its details, as is the fate of all such legends, which the passage of
time adapts to the circumstance of time and place.

The Greek, not finding in his country the insect of which the Hindoo
spoke, introduced the Cigale, as in Paris, the modern Athens, the Cigale
has been replaced by the Grasshopper. The mistake was made; henceforth
indelible. Entrusted as it is to the memory of childhood, error will
prevail against the truth that lies before our eyes.

Let us seek to rehabilitate the songstress so calumniated by the fable.
She is, I grant you, an importunate neighbour. Every summer she takes up
her station in hundreds before my door, attracted thither by the verdure
of two great plane-trees; and there, from sunrise to sunset, she hammers
on my brain with her strident symphony. With this deafening concert
thought is impossible; the mind is in a whirl, is seized with vertigo,
unable to concentrate itself. If I have not profited by the early
morning hours the day is lost.

Ah! Creature possessed, the plague of my dwelling, which I hoped would
be so peaceful!--the Athenians, they say, used to hang you up in a
little cage, the better to enjoy your song. One were well enough, during
the drowsiness of digestion; but hundreds, roaring all at once,
assaulting the hearing until thought recoils--this indeed is torture!
You put forward, as excuse, your rights as the first occupant. Before my
arrival the two plane-trees were yours without reserve; it is I who have
intruded, have thrust myself into their shade. I confess it: yet muffle
your cymbals, moderate your arpeggi, for the sake of your historian! The
truth rejects what the fabulist tells us as an absurd invention. That
there are sometimes dealings between the Cigale and the Ant is perfectly
correct; but these dealings are the reverse of those described in the
fable. They depend not upon the initiative of the former; for the Cigale
never required the help of others in order to make her living: on the
contrary, they are due to the Ant, the greedy exploiter of others, who
fills her granaries with every edible she can find. At no time does the
Cigale plead starvation at the doors of the ant-hills, faithfully
promising a return of principal and interest; the Ant on the contrary,
harassed by drought, begs of the songstress. Begs, do I say! Borrowing
and repayment are no part of the manners of this land-pirate. She
exploits the Cigale; she impudently robs her. Let us consider this
theft; a curious point of history as yet unknown.

In July, during the stifling hours of the afternoon, when the insect
peoples, frantic with drought, wander hither and thither, vainly seeking
to quench their thirst at the faded, exhausted flowers, the Cigale makes
light of the general aridity. With her rostrum, a delicate augur, she
broaches a cask of her inexhaustible store. Crouching, always singing,
on the twig of a suitable shrub or bush, she perforates the firm, glossy
rind, distended by the sap which the sun has matured. Plunging her
proboscis into the bung-hole, she drinks deliciously, motionless, and
wrapt in meditation, abandoned to the charms of syrup and of song.

Let us watch her awhile. Perhaps we shall witness unlooked-for
wretchedness and want. For there are many thirsty creatures wandering
hither and thither; and at last they discover the Cigale's private well,
betrayed by the oozing sap upon the brink. They gather round it, at
first with a certain amount of constraint, confining themselves to
lapping the extravasated liquor. I have seen, crowding around the
honeyed perforation, wasps, flies, earwigs, Sphinx-moths, Pompilidæ,
rose-chafers, and, above all, ants.

The smallest, in order to reach the well, slip under the belly of the
Cigale, who kindly raises herself on her claws, leaving room for the
importunate ones to pass. The larger, stamping with impatience, quickly
snatch a mouthful, withdraw, take a turn on the neighbouring twigs, and
then return, this time more enterprising. Envy grows keener; those who
but now were cautious become turbulent and aggressive, and would
willingly drive from the spring the well-sinker who has caused it to
flow.

In this crowd of brigands the most aggressive are the ants. I have seen
them nibbling the ends of the Cigale's claws; I have caught them tugging
the ends of her wings, climbing on her back, tickling her antennæ. One
audacious individual so far forgot himself under my eyes as to seize her
proboscis, endeavouring to extract it from the well!

Thus hustled by these dwarfs, and at the end of her patience, the
giantess finally abandons the well. She flies away, throwing a jet of
liquid excrement over her tormentors as she goes. But what cares the Ant
for this expression of sovereign contempt? She is left in possession of
the spring--only too soon exhausted when the pump is removed that made
it flow. There is little left, but that little is sweet. So much to the
good; she can wait for another drink, attained in the same manner, as
soon as the occasion presents itself.



As we see, reality completely reverses the action described by the
fable. The shameless beggar, who does not hesitate at theft, is the Ant;
the industrious worker, willingly sharing her goods with the suffering,
is the Cigale. Yet another detail, and the reversal of the fable is
further emphasised. After five or six weeks of gaiety, the songstress
falls from the tree, exhausted by the fever of life. The sun shrivels
her body; the feet of the passers-by crush it. A bandit always in search
of booty, the Ant discovers the remains. She divides the rich find,
dissects it, and cuts it up into tiny fragments, which go to swell her
stock of provisions. It is not uncommon to see a dying Cigale, whose
wings are still trembling in the dust, drawn and quartered by a gang of
knackers. Her body is black with them. After this instance of
cannibalism the truth of the relations between the two insects is
obvious.

Antiquity held the Cigale in high esteem. The Greek Béranger, Anacreon,
devoted an ode to her, in which his praise of her is singularly
exaggerated. "Thou art almost like unto the Gods," he says. The reasons
which he has given for this apotheosis are none of the best. They
consist in these three privileges: [Greek: gêgenês, apathês,
hanaimosarke]; born of the earth, insensible to pain, bloodless. We will
not reproach the poet for these mistakes; they were then generally
believed, and were perpetuated long afterwards, until the exploring eye
of scientific observation was directed upon them. And in minor poetry,
whose principal merit lies in rhythm and harmony, we must not look at
things too closely.

Even in our days, the Provençal poets, who know the Cigale as Anacreon
never did, are scarcely more careful of the truth in celebrating the
insect which they have taken for their emblem. A friend of mine, an
eager observer and a scrupulous realist, does not deserve this reproach.
He gives me permission to take from his pigeon-holes the following
Provençal poem, in which the relations between the Cigale and the Ant
are expounded with all the rigour of science. I leave to him the
responsibility for his poetic images and his moral reflections, blossoms
unknown to my naturalist's garden; but I can swear to the truth of all
he says, for it corresponds with what I see each summer on the
lilac-trees of my garden.


        LA CIGALO E LA FOURNIGO.

                

  Jour de Dièu, queto caud! Bèu tèms pèr la Cigalo,
    Que, trefoulido, se regalo
  D'uno raisso de fio; bèu tèms per la meissoun.
    Dins lis erso d'or, lou segaire,
  Ren plega, pitre au vent, rustico e canto gaire;
  Dins soun gousiè, la set estranglo la cansoun.

  Tèms benesi pèr tu. Dounc, ardit! cigaleto,
    Fai-lei brusi, ti chimbaleto,
  E brandusso lou ventre à creba ti mirau.
    L'Ome enterin mando le daio,
  Que vai balin-balan de longo e que dardaio
  L'ulau de soun acié sus li rous espigau.

  Plèn d'aigo pèr la péiro e tampouna d'erbiho
    Lou coufié sus l'anco pendiho.
  Si la péiro es au frès dins soun estui de bos,
    E se de longo es abèurado,
  L'Ome barbelo au fio d'aqueli souleiado
  Que fan bouli de fes la mesoulo dis os.

  Tu, Cigalo, as un biais pèr la set: dins la rusco
    Tendro e jutouso d'uno busco,
  L'aguio de toun bè cabusso e cavo un pous.
    Lou siro monto pèr la draio.
  T'amourres à la fon melicouso que raio,
  E dou sourgènt sucra bèves lou teta-dous.

  Mai pas toujour en pas. Oh! que nàni; de laire,
    Vesin, vesino o barrulaire,
  T'an vist cava lou pous. An set; vènon, doulènt,
    Te prène un degout pèr si tasso.
  Mesfiso-te, ma bello: aqueli curo-biasso,
  Umble d'abord, soun lèu de gusas insoulènt.

  Quiston un chicouloun di rèn, pièi de ti resto
    Soun plus countènt, ausson la testo
  E volon tout: L'auran. Sis arpioun en rastèu
    Te gatihoun lou bout de l'alo.
  Sus tu larjo esquinasso es un mounto-davalo;
  T'aganton pèr lou bè, li bano, lis artèu;

  Tiron d'eici, d'eilà. L'impaciènci te gagno.
    Pst! pst! d'un giscle de pissagno
  Aspèrges l'assemblado e quites lou ramèu.
    T'en vas bèn liuen de la racaio,
  Que t'a rauba lou pous, e ris, e se gougaio,
  E se lipo li brego enviscado de mèu.

  Or d'aqueli boumian abèura sens fatigo,
    Lou mai tihous es la fournigo.
  Mousco, cabrian, guespo e tavan embana,
    Espeloufi de touto meno,
  Costo-en-long qu'à toun pous lou soulcias ameno,
  N'an pas soun testardige à te faire enana.

  Pèr l'esquicha l'artèu, te coutiga lou mourre,
    Te pessuga lou nas, pèr courre
  A l'oumbro du toun ventre, osco! degun la vau.
    Lou marrit-pèu prend pèr escalo
  Uno patto e te monto, ardido, sus lis alo,
  E s'espasso, insoulènto, e vai d'amont, d'avau.


             

    Aro veici qu'es pas de crèire.
    Ancian tèms, nous dison li rèire,
  Un jour d'ivèr; la fam te prenguè. Lou front bas
    E d'escoundoun anères vèire,
  Dins si grand magasin, la fournigo, eilàbas.

  L'endrudido au soulèu secavo,
    Avans de lis escoundre en cavo,
  Si blad qu'aviè mousi l'eigagno de la niue.
    Quand èron lest lis ensacavo.
  Tu survènes alor, emé de plour is iue.

    Iè disés: "Fai bèn fre; l'aurasso
    D'un caire à l'autre me tirasso
  Avanido de fam. A toun riche mouloun
    Leisso-me prène pèr ma biasso.
  Te lou rendrai segur au bèu tèms di meloun.

    "Presto-me un pan de gran." Mai, bouto,
    Se cresès que l'autro t'escouto,
  T'enganes. Di gros sa, rèn de rèn sara tièu.
    "Vai-t'en plus liuen rascla de bouto;
  Crebo de fam l'ivèr, tu que cantes l'estièu."

    Ansin charro la fablo antico
    Pèr nous counséia la pratico
  Di sarro-piastro, urous de nousa li cordoun
    De si bourso.--Que la coulico
  Rousiguè la tripaio en aqueli coudoun!

    Me fai susa, lou fabulisto,
    Quand dis que l'ivèr vas en quisto
  De mousco, verme, gran, tu que manges jamai.
    De blad! Que n'en fariès, ma fisto!
  As ta fon melicouso e demandes rèn mai.

    Que t'enchau l'ivèr! Ta famiho
    A la sousto en terro soumiho,
  Et tu dormes la som que n'a ges de revèi;
    Toun cadabre toumbo en douliho.
  Un jour, en tafurant, la fournigo lou véi,

    De tu magro péu dessecado
    La marriasso fai becado;
  Te curo lou perus, te chapouto à moucèu,
    T'encafourno pèr car-salado,
  Requisto prouvisioun, l'ivèr, en tèms de neu.

               

       Vaqui l'istori veritablo
       Bèn liuen dôu conte de la fablo.
       Que n'en pensas, canèu de sort!
       --O rammaissaire de dardeno
       Det croucu, boumbudo bedeno
  Que gouvernas lou mounde emé lou coffre-fort,

       Fasès courre lou bru, canaio,
       Que l'artisto jamai travaio
       E dèu pati, lou bedigas.
       Teisas-vous dounc: quand di lambrusco
       La Cigalo a cava la rusco,
  Raubas soun bèure, e pièi, morto, la rousigas.

So speaks my friend in the expressive Provençal idiom, rehabilitating
the creature so libelled by the fabulist.

Translated with a little necessary freedom, the English of it is as
follows:--

                

  Fine weather for the Cigale! God, what heat!
     Half drunken with her joy, she feasts
  In a hail of fire. Pays for the harvest meet;
     A golden sea the reaper breasts,
  Loins bent, throat bare; silent, he labours long,
  For thirst within his throat has stilled the song.

  A blessed time for thee, little Cigale.
     Thy little cymbals shake and sound,
  Shake, shake thy stomach till thy mirrors fall!
     Man meanwhile swings his scythe around;
  Continually back and forth it veers,
  Flashing its steel amidst the ruddy ears.

  Grass-plugged, with water for the grinder full,
    A flask is hung upon his hip;
  The stone within its wooden trough is cool,
    Free all the day to sip and sip;
  But man is gasping in the fiery sun,
  That makes his very marrow melt and run.

  Thou, Cigale, hast a cure for thirst: the bark,
    Tender and juicy, of the bough.
  Thy beak, a very needle, stabs it. Mark
    The narrow passage welling now;
  The sugared stream is flowing, thee beside,
  Who drinkest of the flood, the honeyed tide.

  Not in peace always; nay, for thieves arrive,
    Neighbours and wives, or wanderers vile;
  They saw thee sink the well, and ill they thrive
    Thirsting; they seek to drink awhile;
  Beauty, beware! the wallet-snatcher's face,
  Humble at first, grows insolent apace.

  They seek the merest drop; thy leavings take;
    Soon discontent, their heads they toss;
  They crave for all, and all will have. They rake
    Their claws thy folded wings across;
  Thy back a mountain, up and down each goes;
  They seize thee by the beak, the horns, the toes.

  This way and that they pull. Impatient thou:
    Pst! Pst! a jet of nauseous taste
  O'er the assembly sprinklest. Leave the bough
    And fly the rascals thus disgraced,
  Who stole thy well, and with malicious pleasure
  Now lick their honey'd lips, and feed at leisure.

  See these Bohemians without labour fed!
    The ant the worst of all the crew--
  Fly, drone, wasp, beetle too with horned head,
    All of them sharpers thro' and thro',
  Idlers the sun drew to thy well apace--
  None more than she was eager for thy place,

  More apt thy face to tickle, toe to tread,
    Or nose to pinch, and then to run
  Under the shade thine ample belly spread;
    Or climb thy leg for ladder; sun
  Herself audacious on thy wings, and go
  Most insolently o'er thee to and fro.


               

  Now comes a tale that no one should believe.
    In other times, the ancients say,
  The winter came, and hunger made thee grieve.
    Thou didst in secret see one day
  The ant below the ground her treasure store away.

  The wealthy ant was drying in the sun
    Her corn the dew had wet by night,
  Ere storing it again; and one by one
    She filled her sacks as it dried aright.
  Thou camest then, and tears bedimmed thy sight,

  Saying: "'Tis very cold; the bitter bise
    Blows me this way and that to-day.
  I die of hunger. Of your riches please
    Fill me my bag, and I'll repay,
  When summer and its melons come this way.

  "Lend me a little corn." Go to, go to!
    Think you the ant will lend an ear?
  You are deceived. Great sacks, but nought for you!
    "Be off, and scrape some barrel clear!
  You sing of summer: starve, for winter's here!"

  'Tis thus the ancient fable sings
    To teach us all the prudence ripe
  Of farthing-snatchers, glad to knot the string
    That tie their purses. May the gripe
  Of colic twist the guts of all such tripe!

  He angers me, this fable-teller does,
    Saying in winter thou dost seek
  Flies, grubs, corn--thou dost never eat like us!
    --Corn! Couldst thou eat it, with thy beak?
  Thou hast thy fountain with its honey'd reek.

  To thee what matters winter? Underground
    Slumber thy children, sheltered; thou
  The sleep that knows no waking sleepest sound.
    Thy body, fallen from the bough,
  Crumbles; the questing ant has found thee now.

  The wicked ant of thy poor withered hide
    A banquet makes; in little bits
  She cuts thee up, and empties thine inside,
    And stores thee where in wealth she sits:
  Choice diet when the winter numbs the wits.


               

  Here is the tale related duly,
  And little resembling the fable, truly!
  Hoarders of farthings, I know, deuce take it.
  It isn't the story as you would make it!
  Crook-fingers, big-bellies, what do you say,
  Who govern the world with the cash-box--hey?

  You have spread the story, with shrug and smirk,
  That the artist ne'er does a stroke of work;
  And so let him suffer, the imbecile!
  Be you silent! 'Tis you, I think,
  When the Cigale pierces the vine to drink,
  Drive her away, her drink to steal;
  And when she is dead--you make your meal!






THE CIGALE LEAVES ITS BURROW


The first Cigales appear about the summer solstice. Along the beaten
paths, calcined by the sun, hardened by the passage of frequent feet, we
see little circular orifices almost large enough to admit the thumb.
These are the holes by which the larvæ of the Cigale have come up from
the depths to undergo metamorphosis. We see them more or less
everywhere, except in fields where the soil has been disturbed by
ploughing. Their usual position is in the driest and hottest situations,
especially by the sides of roads or the borders of footpaths. Powerfully
equipped for the purpose, able at need to pierce the turf or sun-dried
clay, the larva, upon leaving the earth, seems to prefer the hardest
spots.

A garden alley, converted into a little Arabia Petræa by reflection from
a wall facing the south, abounds in such holes. During the last days of
June I have made an examination of these recently abandoned pits. The
soil is so compact that I needed a pick to tackle it.

The orifices are round, and close upon an inch in diameter. There is
absolutely no debris round them; no earth thrown up from within. This is
always the case; the holes of the Cigales are never surrounded by
dumping-heaps, as are the burrows of the Geotrupes, another notable
excavator. The way in which the work is done is responsible for this
difference. The dung-beetle works from without inwards; she begins to
dig at the mouth of the burrow, and afterwards re-ascends and
accumulates the excavated material on the surface. The larva of the
Cigale, on the contrary, works outward from within, upward from below;
it opens the door of exit at the last moment, so that it is not free for
the discharge of excavated material until the work is done. The first
enters and raises a little rubbish-heap at the threshold of her burrow;
the second emerges, and cannot, while working, pile up its rubbish on a
threshold which as yet has no existence.

The burrow of the Cigale descends about fifteen inches. It is
cylindrical, slightly twisted, according to the exigencies of the soil,
and always approaches the vertical, or the direction of the shortest
passage. It is perfectly free along its entire length. We shall search
in vain for the rubbish which such an excavation must apparently
produce; we shall find nothing of the sort. The burrow terminates in a
cul-de-sac, in a fairly roomy chamber with unbroken walls, which shows
not the least vestige of communication with any other burrow or
prolongation of the shaft.

Taking its length and diameter into account, we find the excavation has
a total volume of about twelve cubic inches. What becomes of the earth
which is removed?

Sunk in a very dry, crumbling soil, we should expect the shaft and the
chamber at the bottom to have soft, powdery walls, subject to petty
landslips, if no work were done but that of excavation. On the contrary,
the walls are neatly daubed, plastered with a sort of clay-like mortar.
They are not precisely smooth, indeed they are distinctly rough; but
their irregularities are covered with a layer of plaster, and the
crumbling material, soaked in some glutinous liquid and dried, is held
firmly in place.

The larva can climb up and down, ascend nearly to the surface, and go
down into its chamber of refuge, without bringing down, with his claws,
the continual falls of material which would block the burrow, make
ascent a matter of difficulty, and retreat impossible. The miner shores
up his galleries with uprights and cross-timbers; the builder of
underground railways supports the sides and roofs of his tunnels with a
lining of brick or masonry or segments of iron tube; the larva of the
Cigale, no less prudent an engineer, plasters the walls of its burrow
with cement, so that the passage is always free and ready for use.

If I surprise the creature just as it is emerging from the soil in order
to gain a neighbouring bough and there undergo transformation, I see it
immediately make a prudent retreat, descending to the bottom of its
burrow without the slightest difficulty--a proof that even when about to
be abandoned for ever the refuge is not encumbered with rubbish.

The ascending shaft is not a hurried piece of work, scamped by a
creature impatient to reach the sunlight. It is a true dwelling, in
which the larva may make a long stay. The plastered walls betray as
much. Such precautions would be useless in the case of a simple exit
abandoned as soon as made. We cannot doubt that the burrow is a kind of
meteorological observatory, and that its inhabitant takes note of the
weather without. Buried underground at a depth of twelve or fifteen
inches, the larva, when ripe for escape, could hardly judge whether the
meteorological conditions were favourable. The subterranean climate
varies too little, changes too slowly, and would not afford it the
precise information required for the most important action of its
life--the escape into the sunshine at the time of metamorphosis.

Patiently, for weeks, perhaps for months, it digs, clears, and
strengthens a vertical shaft, leaving only a layer of earth a finger's
breadth in thickness to isolate it from the outer world. At the bottom
it prepares a carefully built recess. This is its refuge, its place of
waiting, where it reposes in peace if its observations decide it to
postpone its final departure. At the least sign of fine weather it
climbs to the top of its burrow, sounds the outer world through the thin
layer of earth which covers the shaft, and informs itself of the
temperature and humidity of the outer air.

If things are not going well--if there are threats of a flood or the
dreaded _bise_--events of mortal gravity when the delicate insect issues
from its cerements--the prudent creature re-descends to the bottom of
its burrow for a longer wait. If, on the contrary, the state of the
atmosphere is favourable, the roof is broken through by a few strokes of
its claws, and the larva emerges from its tunnel.

Everything seems to prove that the burrow of the Cigale is a
waiting-room, a meteorological station, in which the larva makes a
prolonged stay; sometimes hoisting itself to the neighbourhood of the
surface in order to ascertain the external climate; sometimes retiring
to the depths the better to shelter itself. This explains the chamber
at the base of the shaft, and the necessity of a cement to hold the
walls together, for otherwise the creature's continual comings and
goings would result in a landslip.

A matter less easy of explanation is the complete disappearance of the
material which originally filled the excavated space. Where are the
twelve cubic inches of earth that represent the average volume of the
original contents of the shaft? There is not a trace of this material
outside, nor inside either. And how, in a soil as dry as a cinder, is
the plaster made with which the walls are covered?

Larvæ which burrow in wood, such as those of Capricornis and Buprestes,
will apparently answer our first question. They make their way through
the substance of a tree-trunk, boring their galleries by the simple
method of eating the material in front of them. Detached by their
mandibles, fragment by fragment, the material is digested. It passes
from end to end through the body of the pioneer, yields during its
passage its meagre nutritive principles, and accumulates behind it,
obstructing the passage, by which the larva will never return. The work
of extreme division, effected partly by the mandibles and partly by the
stomach, makes the digested material more compact than the intact wood,
from which it follows that there is always a little free space at the
head of the gallery, in which the caterpillar works and lives; it is not
of any great length, but just suffices for the movements of the
prisoner.

Must not the larva of the Cigale bore its passage in some such fashion?
I do not mean that the results of excavation pass through its body--for
earth, even the softest mould, could form no possible part of its diet.
But is not the material detached simply thrust back behind the excavator
as the work progresses?

The Cigale passes four years under ground. This long life is not spent,
of course, at the bottom of the well I have just described; that is
merely a resting-place preparatory to its appearance on the face of the
earth. The larva comes from elsewhere; doubtless from a considerable
distance. It is a vagabond, roaming from one root to another and
implanting its rostrum. When it moves, either to flee from the upper
layers of the soil, which in winter become too cold, or to install
itself upon a more juicy root, it makes a road by rejecting behind it
the material broken up by the teeth of its picks. That this is its
method is incontestable.

As with the larvæ of Capricornis and Buprestes, it is enough for the
traveller to have around it the small amount of free space necessitated
by its movements. Moist, soft, and easily compressible soil is to the
larva of the Cigale what digested wood-pulp is to the others. It is
compressed without difficulty, and so leaves a vacant space.

The difficulty is that sometimes the burrow of exit from the
waiting-place is driven through a very arid soil, which is extremely
refractory to compression so long as it retains its aridity. That the
larva, when commencing the excavation of its burrow, has already thrust
part of the detached material into a previously made gallery, now filled
up and disappeared, is probable enough, although nothing in the actual
condition of things goes to support the theory; but if we consider the
capacity of the shaft and the extreme difficulty of making room for such
a volume of debris, we feel dubious once more; for to hide such a
quantity of earth a considerable empty space would be necessary, which
could only be obtained by the disposal of more debris. Thus we are
caught in a vicious circle. The mere packing of the powdered earth
rejected behind the excavator would not account for so large a void. The
Cigale must have a special method of disposing of the waste earth. Let
us see if we can discover the secret.

Let us examine a larva at the moment of emerging from the soil. It is
almost always more or less smeared with mud, sometimes dried, sometimes
moist. The implements of excavation, the claws of the fore-feet, have
their points covered by little globules of mortar; the others bear
leggings of mud; the back is spotted with clay. One is reminded of a
scavenger who has been scooping up mud all day. This condition is the
more striking in that the insect comes from an absolutely dry soil. We
should expect to see it dusty; we find it muddy.

One more step, and the problem of the well is solved. I exhume a larva
which is working at its gallery of exit. Chance postpones this piece of
luck, which I cannot expect to achieve at once, since nothing on the
surface guides my search. But at last I am rewarded, and the larva is
just beginning its excavation. An inch of tunnel, free of all waste or
rubbish, and at the bottom the chamber, the place of rest; so far has
the work proceeded. And the worker--in what condition is it? Let us see.

The larva is much paler in colour than those which I have caught as they
emerged. The large eyes in particular are whitish, cloudy, blurred, and
apparently blind. What would be the use of sight underground? The eyes
of the larvæ leaving their burrows are black and shining, and evidently
capable of sight. When it issues into the sunlight the future Cigale
must find, often at some distance from its burrow, a suitable twig from
which to hang during its metamorphosis, so that sight is obviously of
the greatest utility. The maturity of the eyes, attained during the time
of preparation before deliverance, proves that the larva, far from
boring its tunnel in haste, has spent a long time labouring at it.

What else do we notice? The blind, pale larva is far more voluminous
than in the mature state; it is swollen with liquid as though it had
dropsy. Taken in the fingers, a limpid serum oozes from the hinder part
of the body, which moistens the whole surface. Is this fluid, evacuated
by the intestine, a product of urinary secretion--simply the contents of
a stomach nourished entirely upon sap? I will not attempt to decide, but
for convenience will content myself with calling it urine.

Well, this fountain of urine is the key to the enigma. As it digs and
advances the larva waters the powdery debris and converts it into a
paste, which is immediately applied to the walls by the pressure of the
abdomen. Aridity is followed by plasticity. The mud thus obtained
penetrates the interstices of the rough soil; the more liquid portion
enters the substance of the soil by infiltration; the remainder becomes
tightly packed and fills up the inequalities of the walls. Thus the
insect obtains an empty tunnel, with no loose waste, as all the loosened
soil is utilised on the spot, converted into a mortar which is more
compact and homogeneous than the soil through which the shaft is
driven.

Thus the larva works in the midst of a coating of mud, which is the
cause of its dirtiness, so astonishing when we see it issue from an
excessively dry soil. The perfect insect, although henceforth liberated
from the work of a sapper and miner, does not entirely abandon the use
of urine as a weapon, employing it as a means of defence. Too closely
observed it throws a jet of liquid upon the importunate enemy and flies
away. In both its forms the Cigale, in spite of its dry temperament, is
a famous irrigator.

Dropsical as it is, the larva cannot contain sufficient liquid to
moisten and convert into easily compressible mud the long column of
earth which must be removed from the burrow. The reservoir becomes
exhausted, and the provision must be renewed. Where, and how? I think I
can answer the question.

The few burrows uncovered along their entirety, with the meticulous care
such a task demands, have revealed at the bottom, encrusted in the wall
of the terminal chamber, a living root, sometimes of the thickness of a
pencil, sometimes no bigger than a straw. The visible portion of this
root is only a fraction of an inch in length; the rest is hidden by the
surrounding earth. Is the presence of this source of sap fortuitous? Or
is it the result of deliberate choice on the part of the larva? I
incline towards the second alternative, so repeatedly was the presence
of a root verified, at least when my search was skilfully conducted.

Yes, the Cigale, digging its chamber, the nucleus of the future shaft,
seeks out the immediate neighbourhood of a small living root; it lays
bare a certain portion, which forms part of the wall, without
projecting. This living spot in the wall is the fountain where the
supply of moisture is renewed. When its reservoir is exhausted by the
conversion of dry dust into mud the miner descends to its chamber,
thrusts its proboscis into the root, and drinks deep from the vat built
into the wall. Its organs well filled, it re-ascends. It resumes work,
damping the hard soil the better to remove it with its talons, reducing
the debris to mud, in order to pack it tightly around it and obtain a
free passage. In this manner the shaft is driven upwards; logic and the
facts of the case, in the absence of direct observation, justify the
assertion.

If the root were to fail, and the reservoir of the intestine were
exhausted, what would happen? The following experiment will inform us: a
larva is caught as it leaves the earth. I place it at the bottom of a
test-tube, and cover it with a column of dry earth, which is rather
lightly packed. This column is about six inches in height. The larva has
just left an excavation three times as deep, made in soil of the same
kind, but offering a far greater resistance. Buried under this short
column of powdery earth, will it be able to gain the surface? If its
strength hold out the issue should be certain; having but lately made
its way through the hard earth, this obstacle should be easily removed.

But I am not so sure. In removing the stopper which divided it from the
outside world, the larva has expended its final store of liquid. The
cistern is dry, and in default of a living root there is no means of
replenishing it. My suspicions are well founded. For three days the
prisoner struggles desperately, but cannot ascend by so much as an inch.
It is impossible to fix the material removed in the absence of
moisture; as soon as it is thrust aside it slips back again. The labour
has no visible result; it is a labour of Sisyphus, always to be
commenced anew. On the fourth day the creature succumbs.

With the intestines full the result is very different.

I make the same experiment with an insect which is only beginning its
work of liberation. It is swollen with fluid, which oozes from it and
moistens the whole body. Its task is easy; the overlying earth offers
little resistance. A small quantity of liquid from the intestines
converts it into mud; forms a sticky paste which can be thrust aside
with the assurance that it will remain where it is placed. The shaft is
gradually opened; very unevenly, to be sure, and it is almost choked up
behind the insect as it climbs upwards. It seems as though the creature
recognises the impossibility of renewing its store of liquid, and so
economises the little it possesses, using only just so much as is
necessary in order to escape as quickly as possible from surroundings
which are strange to its inherited instincts. This parsimony is so well
judged that the insect gains the surface at the end of twelve days.

The gate of issue is opened and left gaping, like a hole made with an
augur. For some little time the larva wanders about the neighbourhood of
its burrow, seeking an eyrie on some low-growing bush or tuft of thyme,
on a stem of grass or grain, or the twig of a shrub. Once found, it
climbs and firmly clasps its support, the head upwards, while the talons
of the fore feet close with an unyielding grip. The other claws, if the
direction of the twig is convenient, assist in supporting it; otherwise
the claws of the two fore legs will suffice. There follows a moment of
repose, while the supporting limbs stiffen in an unbreakable hold. Then
the thorax splits along the back, and through the fissure the insect
slowly emerges. The whole process lasts perhaps half an hour.

There is the adult insect, freed of its mask, and how different from
what it was but how! The wings are heavy, moist, transparent, with
nervures of a tender green. The thorax is barely clouded with brown. All
the rest of the body is a pale green, whitish in places. Heat and a
prolonged air-bath are necessary to harden and colour the fragile
creature. Some two hours pass without any perceptible change. Hanging to
its deserted shell by the two fore limbs, the Cigale sways to the least
breath of air, still feeble and still green. Finally, the brown colour
appears and rapidly covers the whole body; the change of colour is
completed in half an hour. Fastening upon its chosen twig at nine
o'clock in the morning, the Cigale flies away under my eyes at half-past
twelve.

The empty shell remains, intact except for the fissure in the back;
clasping the twig so firmly that the winds of autumn do not always
succeed in detaching it. For some months yet and even during the winter
you will often find these forsaken skins hanging from the twigs in the
precise attitude assumed by the larva at the moment of metamorphosis.
They are of a horny texture, not unlike dry parchment, and do not
readily decay.

I could gather some wonderful information regarding the Cigale were I to
listen to all that my neighbours, the peasants, tell me. I will give one
instance of rustic natural history.



Are you afflicted with any kidney trouble, or are you swollen with
dropsy, or have you need of some powerful diuretic? The village
pharmacopoeia is unanimous in recommending the Cigale as a sovereign
remedy. The insects in the adult form are collected in summer. They are
strung into necklaces which are dried in the sun and carefully preserved
in some cupboard or drawer. A good housewife would consider it imprudent
to allow July to pass without threading a few of these insects.

Do you suffer from any nephritic irritation or from stricture? Drink an
infusion of Cigales. Nothing, they say, is more effectual. I must take
this opportunity of thanking the good soul who once upon a time, so I
was afterwards informed, made me drink such a concoction unawares for
the cure of some such trouble; but I still remain incredulous. I have
been greatly struck by the fact that the ancient physician of Anazarbus
used to recommend the same remedy. Dioscorides tells us: _Cicadæ, quae
inassatae manduntur, vesicae doloribus prosunt_. Since the distant days
of this patriarch of _materia medica_ the Provençal peasant has retained
his faith in the remedy revealed to him by the Greeks, who came from
Phocæa with the olive, the fig, and the vine. Only one thing is changed:
Dioscorides advises us to eat the Cigales roasted, but now they are
boiled, and the decoction is administered as medicine. The explanation
which is given of the diuretic properties of the insect is a marvel of
ingenuousness. The Cigale, as every one knows who has tried to catch it,
throws a jet of liquid excrement in one's face as it flies away. It
therefore endows us with its faculties of evacuation. Thus Dioscorides
and his contemporaries must have reasoned; so reasons the peasant of
Provence to-day.

What would you say, worthy neighbours, if you knew of the virtues of the
larva, which is able to mix sufficient mortar with its urine to build a
meteorological station and a shaft connecting with the outer world? Your
powers should equal those of Rabelais' Gargantua, who, seated upon the
towers of Notre Dame, drowned so many thousands of the inquisitive
Parisians.






THE SONG OF THE CIGALE


Where I live I can capture five species of Cigale, the two principal
species being the common Cigale and the variety which lives on the
flowering ash. Both of these are widely distributed and are the only
species known to the country folk. The larger of the two is the common
Cigale. Let me briefly describe the mechanism with which it produces its
familiar note.

On the under side of the body of the male, immediately behind the
posterior limbs, are two wide semicircular plates which slightly overlap
one another, the right hand lying over the left hand plate. These are
the shutters, the lids, the dampers of the musical-box. Let us remove
them. To the right and left lie two spacious cavities which are known in
Provençal as the chapels (_li capello_). Together they form the church
(_la glèiso_). Their forward limit is formed by a creamy yellow
membrane, soft and thin; the hinder limit by a dry membrane coloured
like a soap bubble and known in Provençal as the mirror (_mirau_).

The church, the mirrors, and the dampers are commonly regarded as the
organs which produce the cry of the Cigale. Of a singer out of breath
one says that he has broken his mirrors (_a li mirau creba_). The same
phrase is used of a poet without inspiration. Acoustics give the lie to
the popular belief. You may break the mirrors, remove the covers with a
snip of the scissors, and tear the yellow anterior membrane, but these
mutilations do not silence the song of the Cigale; they merely change
its quality and weaken it. The chapels are resonators; they do not
produce the sound, but merely reinforce it by the vibration of their
anterior and posterior membranes; while the sound is modified by the
dampers as they are opened more or less widely.

The actual source of the sound is elsewhere, and is somewhat difficult
for a novice to find. On the outer wall of either chapel, at the ridge
formed by the junction of back and belly, is a tiny aperture with a
horny circumference masked by the overlapping damper. We will call this
the window. This opening gives access to a cavity or sound-chamber,
deeper than the "chapels," but of much smaller capacity. Immediately
behind the attachment of the posterior wings is a slight protuberance,
almost egg-shaped, which is distinguishable, on account of its dull
black colour, from the neighbouring integuments, which are covered with
a silvery down. This protuberance is the outer wall of the
sound-chamber.

Let us cut it boldly away. We shall then lay bare the mechanism which
produces the sound, the _cymbal_. This is a small dry, white membrane,
oval in shape, convex on the outer side, and crossed along its larger
diameter by a bundle of three or four brown nervures, which give it
elasticity. Its entire circumference is rigidly fixed. Let us suppose
that this convex scale is pulled out of shape from the interior, so
that it is slightly flattened and as quickly released; it will
immediately regain its original convexity owing to the elasticity of the
nervures. From this oscillation a ticking sound will result.

Twenty years ago all Paris was buying a silly toy, called, I think, the
cricket or _cri-cri_. It was a short slip of steel fixed by one end to a
metallic base. Pressed out of shape by the thumb and released, it
yielded a very distressing, tinkling _click_. Nothing else was needed to
take the popular mind by storm. The "cricket" had its day of glory.
Oblivion has executed justice upon it so effectually that I fear I shall
not be understood when I recall this celebrated device.

The membranous cymbal and the steel cricket are analogous instruments.
Both produce a sound by reason of the rapid deformation and recovery of
an elastic substance--in one case a convex membrane; in the other a slip
of steel. The "cricket" was bent out of shape by the thumb. How is the
convexity of the cymbals altered? Let us return to the "church" and
break down the yellow curtain which closes the front of each chapel. Two
thick muscular pillars are visible, of a pale orange colour; they join
at an angle, forming a ~V~, of which the point lies on the median line
of the insect, against the lower face of the thorax. Each of these
pillars of flesh terminates suddenly at its upper extremity, as though
cut short, and from the truncated portion rises a short, slender tendon,
which is attached laterally to the corresponding cymbal.

There is the whole mechanism, no less simple than that of the steel
"cricket." The two muscular columns contract and relax, shorten and
lengthen. By means of its terminal thread each sounds its cymbal, by
depressing it and immediately releasing it, when its own elasticity
makes it spring back into shape. These two vibrating scales are the
source of the Cigale's cry.

Do you wish to convince yourself of the efficiency of this mechanism?
Take a Cigale but newly dead and make it sing. Nothing is simpler. Seize
one of these muscular columns with the forceps and pull it in a series
of careful jerks. The extinct _cri-cri_ comes to life again; at each
jerk there is a clash of the cymbal. The sound is feeble, to be sure,
deprived of the amplitude which the living performer is able to give it
by means of his resonating chambers; none the less, the fundamental
element of the song is produced by this anatomist's trick.

Would you, on the other hand, silence a living Cigale?--that obstinate
melomaniac, who, seized in the fingers, deplores his misfortune as
loquaciously as ever he sang the joys of freedom in his tree? It is
useless to violate his chapels, to break his mirrors; the atrocious
mutilation would not quiet him. But introduce a needle by the lateral
aperture which we have named the "window" and prick the cymbal at the
bottom of the sound-box. A little touch and the perforated cymbal is
silent. A similar operation on the other side of the insect and the
insect is dumb, though otherwise as vigorous as before and without any
perceptible wound. Any one not in the secret would be amazed at the
result of my pin-prick, when the destruction of the mirrors and the
other dependencies of the "church" do not cause silence. A tiny
perforation of no importance to the insect is more effectual than
evisceration.

The dampers, which are rigid and solidly built, are motionless. It is
the abdomen itself which, by rising and falling, opens or closes the
doors of the "church." When the abdomen is lowered the dampers exactly
cover the chapels as well as the windows of the sound-boxes. The sound
is then muted, muffled, diminished. When the abdomen rises the chapels
are open, the windows unobstructed, and the sound acquires its full
volume. The rapid oscillations of the abdomen, synchronising with the
contractions of the motor muscles of the cymbals, determine the changing
volume of the sound, which seems to be caused by rapidly repeated
strokes of a fiddlestick.

If the weather is calm and hot, towards mid-day the song of the Cigale
is divided into strophes of several seconds' duration, which are
separated by brief intervals of silence. The strophe begins suddenly. In
a rapid crescendo, the abdomen oscillating with increasing rapidity, it
acquires its maximum volume; it remains for a few seconds at the same
degree of intensity, then becomes weaker by degrees, and degenerates
into a shake, which decreases as the abdomen returns to rest. With the
last pulsations of the belly comes silence; the length of the silent
interval varies according to the state of the atmosphere. Then, of a
sudden, begins a new strophe, a monotonous repetition of the first; and
so on indefinitely.

It often happens, especially during the hours of the sultry afternoons,
that the insect, intoxicated with sunlight, shortens and even suppresses
the intervals of silence. The song is then continuous, but always with
an alternation of crescendo and diminuendo. The first notes are heard
about seven or eight o'clock in the morning, and the orchestra ceases
only when the twilight fails, about eight o'clock at night. The concert
lasts a whole round of the clock. But if the sky is grey and the wind
chilly the Cigale is silent.

The second species, only half the size of the common Cigale, is known in
Provence as the _Cacan_; the name, being a fairly exact imitation of the
sound emitted by the insect. This is the Cigale of the flowering ash,
far more alert and far more suspicious than the common species. Its
harsh, loud song consists of a series of cries--_can! can! can!
can!_--with no intervals of silence subdividing the poem into stanzas.
Thanks to its monotony and its harsh shrillness, it is a most odious
sound, especially when the orchestra consists of hundreds of performers,
as is often the case in my two plane-trees during the dog-days. It is as
though a heap of dry walnuts were being shaken up in a bag until the
shells broke. This painful concert, which is a real torment, offers only
one compensation: the Cigale of the flowering ash does not begin his
song so early as the common Cigale, and does not sing so late in the
evening.

Although constructed on the same fundamental principles, the vocal
organs exhibit a number of peculiarities which give the song its special
character. The sound-box is lacking, which suppresses the entrance to
it, or the window. The cymbal is uncovered, and is visible just behind
the attachment of the hinder wing. It is, as before, a dry white scale,
convex on the outside, and crossed by a bundle of fine reddish-brown
nervures.





From the forward side of the first segment of the abdomen project two
short, wide, tongue-shaped projections, the free extremities of which
rest on the cymbals. These tongues may be compared to the blade of a
watchman's rattle, only instead of engaging with the teeth of a rotating
wheel they touch the nervures of the vibrating cymbal. From this fact, I
imagine, results the harsh, grating quality of the cry. It is hardly
possible to verify the fact by holding the insect in the fingers; the
terrified _Cacan_ does not go on singing his usual song.

The dampers do not overlap; on the contrary, they are separated by a
fairly wide interval. With the rigid tongues, appendages of the abdomen,
they half shelter the cymbals, half of which is completely bare. Under
the pressure of the finger the abdomen opens a little at its
articulation with the thorax. But the insect is motionless when it
sings; there is nothing of the rapid vibrations of the belly which
modulate the song of the common Cigale. The chapels are very small;
almost negligible as resonators. There are mirrors, as in the common
Cigale, but they are very small; scarcely a twenty-fifth of an inch in
diameter. In short, the resonating mechanism, so highly developed in the
common Cigale, is here extremely rudimentary. How then is the feeble
vibration of the cymbals re-enforced until it becomes intolerable?

This species of Cigale is a ventriloquist. If we examine the abdomen by
transmitted light, we shall see that the anterior two-thirds of the
abdomen are translucent. With a snip of the scissors we will cut off the
posterior third, to which are relegated, reduced to the strictly
indispensable, the organs necessary to the propagation of the species
and the preservation of the individual. The rest of the abdomen presents
a spacious cavity, and consists simply of the integuments of the walls,
except on the dorsal side, which is lined with a thin muscular layer,
and supports a fine digestive canal, almost a thread. This large cavity,
equal to nearly half the total volume of the insect, is thus almost
absolutely empty. At the back are seen the two motor muscles of the
cymbals, two muscular columns arranged like the limbs of a ~V~. To right
and left of the point of this ~V~ shine the tiny mirrors; and between
the two branches of muscle the empty cavity is prolonged into the depths
of the thorax.

This empty abdomen with its thoracic annex forms an enormous resonator,
such as no other performer in our countryside can boast of. If I close
with my finger the orifice of the truncated abdomen the sound becomes
flatter, in conformity with the laws affecting musical resonators; if I
fit into the aperture of the open body a tube or trumpet of paper the
sound grows louder as well as deeper. With a paper cone corresponding
to the pitch of the note, with its large end held in the mouth of a
test-tube acting as a resonator, we have no longer the cry of the
Cigale, but almost the bellowing of a bull. My little children,
coming up to me by chance at the moment of this acoustic experiment,
fled in terror.

The grating quality of the sound appears to be due to the little tongues
which press on the nervures of the vibrating cymbals; the cause of its
intensity is of course the ample resonator in the abdomen. We must admit
that one must truly have a real passion for song before one would empty
one's chest and stomach in order to make room for a musical-box. The
necessary vital organs are extremely small, confined to a mere corner of
the body, in order to increase the amplitude of the resonating cavity.
Song comes first of all; other matters take the second rank.

It is lucky that the _Cacan_ does not follow the laws of evolution. If,
more enthusiastic in each generation, it could acquire, in the course of
progress, a ventral resonator comparable to my paper trumpets, the South
of France would sooner or later become uninhabitable, and the _Cacan_
would have Provence to itself.

After the details already given concerning the common Cigale it is
hardly needful to tell you how the insupportable _Cacan_ can be reduced
to silence. The cymbals are plainly visible on the exterior. Pierce them
with the point of a needle, and immediately you have perfect silence. If
only there were, in my plane-trees, among the insects which carry
gimlets, some friends of silence like myself, who would devote
themselves to such a task! But no: a note would be lacking in the
majestic symphony of harvest-tide.

We are now familiar with the structure of the musical organ of the
Cigale. Now the question arises: What is the object of these musical
orgies? The reply seems obvious: they are the call of the males inviting
their mates; they constitute a lovers' cantata.

I am going to consider this reply, which is certainly a very natural
one. For thirty years the common Cigale and his unmusical friend the
_Cacan_ have thrust their society upon me. For two months every summer I
have them under my eyes, and their voice in my ears. If I do not listen
to them very willingly I observe them with considerable zeal. I see
them ranged in rows on the smooth rind of the plane-trees, all with
their heads uppermost, the two sexes mingled, and only a few inches
apart.

The proboscis thrust into the bark, they drink, motionless. As the sun
moves, and with it the shadow, they also move round the branch with slow
lateral steps, so as to keep upon that side which is most brilliantly
illuminated, most fiercely heated. Whether the proboscis is at work or
not the song is never interrupted.

Now are we to take their interminable chant for a passionate love-song?
I hesitate. In this gathering the two sexes are side by side. One does
not spend months in calling a person who is at one's elbow. Moreover, I
have never seen a female rush into the midst of even the most deafening
orchestra. Sight is a sufficient prelude to marriage, for their sight is
excellent. There is no need for the lover to make an everlasting
declaration, for his mistress is his next-door neighbour.

Is the song a means of charming, of touching the hard of heart? I doubt
it. I observe no sign of satisfaction in the females; I have never seen
them tremble or sway upon their feet, though their lovers have clashed
their cymbals with the most deafening vigour.

My neighbours the peasants say that at harvest-time the Cigale sings to
them: _Sego, sego, sego!_ (Reap, reap, reap!) to encourage them in their
work. Harvesters of ideas and of ears of grain, we follow the same
calling; the latter produce food for the stomach, the former food for
the mind. Thus I understand their explanation and welcome it as an
example of gracious simplicity.

Science asks for a better explanation, but finds in the insect a world
which is closed to us. There is no possibility of foreseeing, or even
of suggesting the impression produced by this clashing of cymbals upon
those who inspire it. The most I can say is that their impassive
exterior seems to denote a complete indifference. I do not insist that
this is so; the intimate feelings of the insect are an insoluble
mystery.

Another reason for doubt is this: all creatures affected by song have
acute hearing, and this sense of hearing, a vigilant sentinel, should
give warning of danger at the slightest sound. The birds have an
exquisite delicacy of hearing. If a leaf stirs among the branches, if
two passers-by exchange a word, they are suddenly silent, anxious, and
on their guard. But the Cigale is far from sharing in such emotions. It
has excellent sight. Its great faceted eyes inform it of all that
happens to right and left; its three stemmata, like little ruby
telescopes, explore the sky above its head. If it sees us coming it is
silent at once, and flies away. But let us get behind the branch on
which it is singing; let us manoeuvre so as to avoid the five centres
of vision, and then let us speak, whistle, clap the hands, beat two
stones together. For far less a bird which could not see you would stop
its song and fly away terrified. The Cigale imperturbably continues to
sing as if nothing had occurred.

Of my experiences of this kind I will mention only one, the most
remarkable of many.

I borrowed the municipal artillery; that is, the iron boxes which are
charged with gunpowder on the day of the patron saint. The artilleryman
was delighted to load them for the benefit of the Cigales, and to fire
them off for me before my house. There were two of these boxes stuffed
full of powder as though for the most solemn rejoicing. Never was
politician making his electoral progress favoured with a bigger charge.
To prevent damage to my windows the sashes were all left open. The two
engines of detonation were placed at the foot of the plane-trees before
my door, no precautions being taken to mask them. The Cigales singing in
the branches above could not see what was happening below.

There were six of us, spectators and auditors. We waited for a moment of
relative quiet. The number of singers was counted by each of us, as well
as the volume and rhythm of the song. We stood ready, our ears attentive
to the aerial orchestra. The box exploded with a clap of thunder.

No disturbance ensued above. The number of performers was the same, the
rhythm the same, the volume the same. The six witnesses were unanimous:
the loud explosion had not modified the song of the Cigales in the
least. The second box gave an identical result.

What are we to conclude from this persistence of the orchestra, its lack
of surprise or alarm at the firing of a charge? Shall we conclude that
the Cigale is deaf? I am not going to venture so far as that; but if any
one bolder than myself were to make the assertion I really do not know
what reasons I could invoke to disprove it. I should at least be forced
to admit that it is very hard of hearing, and that we may well apply to
it the homely and familiar phrase: to shout like a deaf man.

When the blue-winged cricket, basking on the pebbles of some country
footpath, grows deliciously intoxicated with the heat of the sun and
rubs its great posterior thighs against the roughened edge of its
wing-covers; when the green tree-frog swells its throat in the foliage
of the bushes, distending it to form a resonant cavity when the rain is
imminent, is it calling to its absent mate? By no means. The efforts of
the former produce a scarcely perceptible stridulation; the palpitating
throat of the latter is as ineffectual; and the desired one does not
come.

Does the insect really require to emit these resounding effusions, these
vociferous avowals, in order to declare its passion? Consult the immense
majority whom the conjunction of the sexes leaves silent. In the violin
of the grasshopper, the bagpipe of the tree-frog, and the cymbals of the
_Cacan_ I see only their peculiar means of expressing the joy of living,
the universal joy which every species of animal expresses after its
kind.

If you were to tell me that the Cigales play on their noisy instruments
careless of the sound produced, and merely for the pleasure of feeling
themselves alive, just as we rub our hands in a moment of satisfaction,
I should not be particularly shocked. That there is a secondary object
in their conceit, in which the silent sex is interested, is very
possible and very natural, but it is not as yet proven.[1]





THE CIGALE. THE EGGS AND THEIR HATCHING


The Cigale confides its eggs to dry, slender twigs. All the branches
examined by Réaumur which bore such eggs were branches of the mulberry:
a proof that the person entrusted with the search for these eggs in the
neighbourhood of Avignon did not bring much variety to his quest. I find
these eggs not only on the mulberry-tree, but on the peach, the cherry,
the willow, the Japanese privet, and other trees. But these are
exceptions; what the Cigale really prefers is a slender twig of a
thickness varying from that of a straw to that of a pencil. It should
have a thin woody layer and plenty of pith. If these conditions are
fulfilled the species matters little. I should pass in review all the
semi-ligneous plants of the country were I to catalogue the various
supports which are utilised by the gravid female.

Its chosen twig never lies along the ground; it is always in a more or
less vertical position. It is usually growing in its natural position,
but is sometimes detached; in the latter case it will by chance have
fallen so that it retains its upright position. The insect prefers a
long, smooth, regular twig which can receive the whole of its eggs. The
best batches of eggs which I have found have been laid upon twigs of
the _Spartium junceum_, which are like straws stuffed with pith, and
especially on the upper twigs of the _Asphodelus cerasiferus_, which
rises nearly a yard from the ground before ramifying.

It is essential that the support, no matter what its nature, should be
dead and perfectly dry.

The first operation performed by the Cigale consists in making a series
of slight lacerations, such as one might make with the point of a pin,
which, if plunged obliquely downwards into the twig, would tear the
woody fibres and would compress them so as to form a slight
protuberance.

If the twig is irregular in shape, or if several Cigales have been
working successively at the same point, the distribution of the
punctures is confused; the eye wanders, incapable of recognising the
order of their succession or the work of the individual. One
characteristic is always present, namely, the oblique direction of the
woody fragment which is raised by the perforation, showing that the
Cigale always works in an upright position and plunges its rostrum
downwards in the direction of the twig.

If the twig is regular, smooth, and conveniently long the perforations
are almost equidistant and lie very nearly in a straight line. Their
number varies; it is small when the mother, disturbed in her operations,
has flown away to continue her work elsewhere; but they number thirty or
forty, more or less, when they contain the whole of her eggs.

Each one of the perforations is the entrance to an oblique tunnel, which
is bored in the medullary sheath of the twig. The aperture is not
closed, except by the bunch of woody fibres, which, parted at the moment
when the eggs are laid, recover themselves when the double saw of the
oviduct is removed. Sometimes, but by no means always, you may see
between the fibres a tiny glistening patch like a touch of dried white
of egg. This is only an insignificant trace of some albuminous secretion
accompanying the egg or facilitating the work of the double saw of the
oviduct.

Immediately below the aperture of the perforation is the egg chamber: a
short, tunnel-shaped cavity which occupies almost the whole distance
between one opening and that lying below it. Sometimes the separating
partition is lacking, and the various chambers run into one another, so
that the eggs, although introduced by the various apertures, are
arranged in an uninterrupted row. This arrangement, however, is not the
most usual.

The contents of the chambers vary greatly. I find in each from six to
fifteen eggs. The average is ten. The total number of chambers varying
from thirty to forty, it follows that the Cigale lays from three to four
hundred eggs. Réaumur arrived at the same figures from an examination of
the ovaries.

This is truly a fine family, capable by sheer force of numbers of
surviving the most serious dangers. I do not see that the adult Cigale
is exposed to greater dangers than any other insect: its eye is
vigilant, its departure sudden, and its flight rapid; and it inhabits
heights at which the prowling brigands of the turf are not to be feared.
The sparrow, it is true, will greedily devour it. From time to time he
will deliberately and meditatively descend upon the plane-trees from the
neighbouring roof and snatch up the singer, who squeaks despairingly. A
few blows of the beak and the Cigale is cut into quarters, delicious
morsels for the nestlings. But how often does the bird return without
his prey! The Cigale, foreseeing his attack, empties its intestine in
the eyes of its assailant and flies away.

But the Cigale has a far more terrible enemy than the sparrow. This is
the green grasshopper. It is late, and the Cigales are silent. Drowsy
with light and heat, they have exhausted themselves in producing their
symphonies all day long. Night has come, and with it repose; but a
repose frequently troubled. In the thick foliage of the plane-trees
there is a sudden sound like a cry of anguish, short and strident. It is
the despairing lamentation of the Cigale surprised in the silence by the
grasshopper, that ardent hunter of the night, which leaps upon the
Cigale, seizes it by the flank, tears it open, and devours the contents
of the stomach. After the orgy of music comes night and assassination.

I obtained an insight into this tragedy in the following manner: I was
walking up and down before my door at daybreak when something fell from
the neighbouring plane-tree uttering shrill squeaks. I ran to see what
it was. I found a green grasshopper eviscerating a struggling Cigale. In
vain did the latter squeak and gesticulate; the other never loosed its
hold, but plunged its head into the entrails of the victim and removed
them by little mouthfuls.



2. THE GREEN GRASSHOPPER, THE FALSE CIGALE OF THE NORTH, DEVOURING THE
TRUE CIGALE, A DWELLER IN THE SOUTH.]

This was instructive. The attack was delivered high up above my head, in
the early morning, while the Cigale was resting; and the struggles of
the unfortunate creature as it was dissected alive had resulted in the
fall of assailant and assailed together. Since then I have often been
the witness of similar assassinations.

I have even seen the grasshopper, full of audacity, launch itself in
pursuit of the Cigale, who fled in terror. So the sparrow-hawk pursues
the skylark in the open sky. But the bird of prey is less ferocious than
the insect; it pursues a creature smaller than itself. The locust, on
the contrary, assails a colossus, far larger and far more vigorous than
its enemy; yet the result is a foregone conclusion, in spite of this
disproportion. With its powerful mandibles, like pincers of steel, the
grasshopper rarely fails to eviscerate its captive, which, being
weaponless, can only shriek and struggle.

The Cigale is an easy prey during its hours of somnolence. Every Cigale
encountered by the ferocious grasshopper on its nocturnal round must
miserably perish. Thus are explained those sudden squeaks of anguish
which are sometimes heard in the boughs during the hours of the night
and early morning, although the cymbals have long been silent. The
sea-green bandit has fallen upon some slumbering Cigale. When I wished
to rear some green grasshoppers I had not far to seek for the diet of my
pensioners; I fed them on Cigales, of which enormous numbers were
consumed in my breeding-cages. It is therefore an established fact that
the green grasshopper, the false Cigale of the North, will eagerly
devour the true Cigale, the inhabitant of the Midi.

But it is neither the sparrow nor the green grasshopper that has forced
the Cigale to produce such a vast number of offspring. The real danger
is elsewhere, as we shall see. The risk is enormous at the moment of
hatching and also when the egg is laid.

Two or three weeks after its escape from the earth--that is, about the
middle of July--the Cigale begins to lay. In order to observe the
process without trusting too much to chance, I took certain precautions
which would, I felt sure, prove successful. The dry Asphodelus is the
support preferred by the insect, as previous observations had assured
me. It was also the plant which best lent itself to my experiments, on
account of its long, smooth stems. Now, during the first years of my
residence in the South I replaced the thistles in my paddock by other
native plants of a less stubborn and prickly species. Among the new
occupants was the asphodel. This was precisely what I needed for my
experiments. I left the dry stems of the preceding year in place, and
when the breeding season arrived I inspected them daily.

I had not long to wait. As early as July 15th I found as many Cigales as
I could wish on the stems of the asphodel, all in process of laying. The
gravid female is always solitary. Each mother has her twig to herself,
and is in no danger of being disturbed during the delicate operation of
laying. When the first occupant has departed another may take her place,
and so on indefinitely. There is abundance of room for all; but each
prefers to be alone as her turn arrives. There is, however, no
unpleasantness of any kind; everything passes most peacefully. If a
female Cigale finds a place which has been already taken she flies away
and seeks another twig directly she discovers her mistake.

The gravid female always retains an upright position at this time, as
indeed she does at other times. She is so absorbed in her task that she
may readily be watched, even through a magnifying glass. The ovipositor,
which is about four-tenths of an inch in length, is plunged obliquely
and up to the hilt into the twig. So perfect is the tool that the
operation is by no means troublesome. We see the Cigale tremble
slightly, dilating and contracting the extremity of the abdomen in
frequent palpitations. This is all that can be seen. The boring
instrument, consisting of a double saw, alternately rises and sinks in
the rind of the twig with a gentle, almost imperceptible movement.
Nothing in particular occurs during the process of laying the eggs. The
insect is motionless, and hardly ten minutes elapse between the first
cut of the ovipositor and the filling of the egg-chamber with eggs.

The ovipositor is then withdrawn with methodical deliberation, in order
that it may not be strained or bent. The egg-chamber closes of its own
accord as the woody fibres which have been displaced return to their
position, and the Cigale climbs a little higher, moving upwards in a
straight line, by about the length of its ovipositor. It then makes
another puncture and a fresh chamber for another ten or twelve eggs. In
this way it scales the twig from bottom to top.

These facts being understood, we are able to explain the remarkable
arrangement of the eggs. The openings in the rind of the twig are
practically equidistant, since each time the Cigale moves upward it is
by a given length, namely, that of the ovipositor. Very rapid in flight,
she is a very idle walker. At the most you may see her, on the living
twig from which she is drinking, moving at a slow, almost solemn pace,
to gain a more sunny point close at hand. On the dry twig in which she
deposits her eggs she observes the same formal habits, and even
exaggerates them, in view of the importance of the operation. She moves
as little as possible, just so far as she must in order to avoid running
two adjacent egg-chambers into one. The extent of each movement upwards
is approximately determined by the depth of the perforation.

The apertures are arranged in a straight line when their number is not
very large. Why, indeed, should the insect wander to right or to left
upon a twig which presents the same surface all over? A lover of the
sun, she chooses that side of the twig which is most exposed to it. So
long as she feels the heat, her supreme joy, upon her back, she will
take good care not to change the position which she finds so delightful
for another in which the sun would fall upon her less directly.

The process of depositing the eggs is a lengthy one when it is carried
out entirely on the same twig. Counting ten minutes for each
egg-chamber, the full series of forty would represent a period of six or
seven hours. The sun will of course move through a considerable distance
before the Cigale can finish her work. In such cases the series of
apertures follows a spiral curve. The insect turns round the stalk as
the sun turns.

Very often as the Cigale is absorbed in her maternal task a diminutive
fly, also full of eggs, busily exterminates the Cigale's eggs as fast as
they are laid.

This insect was known to Réaumur. In nearly all the twigs examined he
found its grub, the cause of a misunderstanding at the beginning of his
researches. But he did not, could not see the audacious insect at work.
It is one of the Chalcididæ, about one-fifth or one-sixth of an inch in
length; entirely black, with knotty antennæ, which are slightly thicker
towards their extremities. The unsheathed ovipositor is implanted in the
under portion of the abdomen, about the middle, and at right angles to
the axis of the body, as in the case of the Leucospis, the pest of the
apiary. Not having taken the precaution to capture it, I do not know
what name the entomologists have bestowed upon it, or even if this dwarf
exterminator of the Cigale has as yet been catalogued. What I am
familiar with is its calm temerity, its impudent audacity in the
presence of the colossus who could crush it with a foot. I have seen as
many as three at once exploiting the unfortunate female. They keep close
behind the Cigale, working busily with their probes, or waiting until
their victim deposits her eggs.

The Cigale fills one of her egg-chambers and climbs a little higher in
order to bore another hole. One of the bandits runs to the abandoned
station, and there, almost under the claws of the giant, and without the
least nervousness, as if it were accomplishing some meritorious action,
it unsheathes its probe and thrusts it into the column of eggs, not by
the open aperture, which is bristling with broken fibres, but by a
lateral fissure. The probes works slowly, as the wood is almost intact.
The Cigale has time to fill the adjacent chamber.

As soon as she has finished one of these midges, the very same that has
been performing its task below her, replaces her and introduces its
disastrous egg. By the time the Cigale departs, her ovaries empty, the
majority of the egg-chambers have thus received the alien egg which will
work the destruction of their contents. A small, quick-hatching grub,
richly nourished on a dozen eggs, will replace the family of the Cigale.

The experience of centuries has taught the Cigale nothing. With her
excellent eyesight she must be able to perceive these terrible sappers
as they hover about her, meditating their crime. Too peaceable giantess!
if you see them why do you not seize them in your talons, crush the
pigmies at their work, so that you may proceed with your travail in
security? But no, you will leave them untouched; you cannot modify your
instincts, even to alleviate your maternal misfortunes.

The eggs of the common Cigale are of a shining ivory white. Conical at
the ends, and elongated in form, they might be compared in shape to the
weaver's shuttle. Their length is about one-tenth of an inch, their
diameter about one-fiftieth. They are packed in a row, slightly
overlapping one another. The eggs of the Cacan are slightly smaller, and
are assembled in regular groups which remind one of microscopical
bundles of cigars. We will consider the eggs of the common Cigale to the
exclusion of the others, as their history is the history of all.

September is not yet over when the shining white as of ivory gives way
to the yellow hue of cheese. During the first days of October you may
see, at the forward end of the egg, two tiny points of chestnut brown,
which are the eyes of the embryo in formation. These two shining eyes,
which almost seem to gaze at one, and the cone-shaped head of the egg,
give it the look of a tiny fish without fins--a fish for whom half a
nut-shell would make a capacious aquarium.

About the same time I notice frequently, on the asphodels in the paddock
and on those of the neighbouring hills, certain indications that the
eggs have recently hatched out. There are certain cast-off articles of
clothing, certain rags and tatters, left on the threshold of the
egg-chamber by the new-born grubs as they leave it and hurry in search
of a new lodging. We shall see in a moment what these vestiges mean.

But in spite of my visits, which were so assiduous as to deserve
success, I had never contrived to see the young Cigales emerge from
their egg-chambers. My domestic researches had been pursued in vain. Two
years running I had collected, in boxes, tubes, and bottles, a hundred
twigs of every kind which were peopled by the eggs of the Cigale; but
not one had shown me what I so desired to witness: the issue of the
new-born Cigales.

Réaumur experienced the same disappointment. He tells us how all the
eggs supplied by his friends were abortive, even when he placed them in
a glass tube thrust under his armpit, in order to keep them at a high
temperature. No, venerable master! neither the temperate shelter of our
studies and laboratories, nor the incubating warmth of our bodies is
sufficient here; we need the supreme stimulant, the kiss of the sun;
after the cool of the mornings, which are already sharp, the sudden
blaze of the superb autumn weather, the last endearments of summer.

It was under such circumstances, when a blazing sun followed a cold
night, that I found the signs of completed incubation; but I always came
too late; the young Cigales had departed. At most I sometimes found one
hanging by a thread to its natal stem and struggling in the air. I
supposed it to be caught in a thread of gossamer, or some shred of
cobweb.

At last, on the 27th of October, despairing of success, I gathered some
asphodels from the orchard, and the armful of dry twigs in which the
Cigales had laid their eggs was taken up to my study. Before giving up
all hope I proposed once more to examine the egg-chambers and their
contents. The morning was cold, and the first fire of the season had
been lit in my room. I placed my little bundle on a chair before the
fire, but without any intention of testing the effect of the heat of the
flames upon the concealed eggs. The twigs, which I was about to cut
open, one by one, were placed there to be within easy reach of my hand,
and for no other reason.

Then, while I was examining a split twig with my magnifying-glass, the
phenomenon which I had given up all hope of observing took place under
my eyes. My bundle of twigs was suddenly alive; scores and scores of the
young larvæ were emerging from their egg-chambers. Their numbers were
such that my ambition as observer was amply satisfied. The eggs were
ripe, on the point of hatching, and the warmth of the fire, bright and
penetrating, had the effect of sunlight in the open. I was quick to
profit by the unexpected piece of good fortune.

At the orifice of the egg-chamber, among the torn fibres of the bark, a
little cone-shaped body is visible, with two black eye-spots; in
appearance it is precisely like the fore portion of the butter-coloured
egg; or, as I have said, like the fore portion of a tiny fish. You would
think that an egg had been somehow displaced, had been removed from the
bottom of the chamber to its aperture. An egg to move in this narrow
passage! a walking egg! No, that is impossible; eggs "do not do such
things!" This is some mistake. We will break open the twig, and the
mystery is unveiled. The actual eggs are where they always were, though
they are slightly disarranged. They are empty, reduced to the condition
of transparent skins, split wide open at the upper end. From them has
issued the singular organism whose most notable characteristics are as
follows:--

In its general form, the configuration of the head and the great black
eyes, the creature, still more than the egg, has the appearance of an
extremely minute fish. A simulacrum of a ventral fin increases the
resemblance. This apparent fin in reality consists of the two
fore-limbs, which, packed in a special sheath, are bent backwards,
stretched out against one another in a straight line. Its small degree
of mobility must enable the grub to escape from the egg-shell and, with
greater difficulty, from the woody tunnel leading to the open air.
Moving outwards a little from the body, and then moving back again, this
lever serves as a means of progression, its terminal hooks being already
fairly strong. The four other feet are still covered by the common
envelope, and are absolutely inert. It is the same with the antennæ,
which can scarcely be seen through the magnifying-glass. The organism
which has issued from the egg is a boat-shaped body with a fin-shaped
limb pointing backwards on the ventral face, formed by the junction of
the two fore-limbs. The segmentation of the body is very clear,
especially on the abdomen. The whole body is perfectly smooth, without
the least suspicion of hair.

What name are we to give to this initial phase of the Cigale--a phase so
strange, so unforeseen, and hitherto unsuspected? Must I amalgamate some
more or less appropriate words of Greek and fabricate a portentous
nomenclature? No, for I feel sure that barbarous alien phrases are only
a hindrance to science. I will call it simply the _primary larva_, as I
have done in the case of the Meloides, the Leucospis, and the Anthrax.

The form of the primary larva of the Cigale is eminently adapted to its
conditions and facilitates its escape. The tunnel in which the egg is
hatched is very narrow, leaving only just room for passage. Moreover,
the eggs are arranged in a row, not end to end, but partially
overlapping. The larva escaping from the hinder ranks has to squeeze
past the empty shells, still in position, of the eggs which have already
hatched, so that the narrowness of the passage is increased by the empty
egg-shells. Under these conditions the larva as it will be presently,
when it has torn its temporary wrappings, would be unable to effect the
difficult passage. With the encumbrance of antennæ, with long limbs
spreading far out from the axis of the body, with curved, pointed talons
which hook themselves into their medium of support, everything would
militate against a prompt liberation. The eggs in one chamber hatch
almost simultaneously. It is therefore essential that the first-born
larvæ should hurry out of their shelter as quickly as possible, leaving
the passage free for those behind them. Hence the boat-like shape, the
smooth hairless body without projections, which easily squeezes its way
past obstructions. The primary larva, with its various appendages
closely wrapped against its body by a common sheath, with its fish-like
form and its single and only partially movable limb, is perfectly
adapted to make the difficult passage to the outer air.

This phase is of short duration. Here, for instance, a migrating larva
shows its head, with its big black eyes, and raises the broken fibres of
the entrance. It gradually works itself forward, but so slowly that the
magnifying-glass scarcely reveals its progress. At the end of half an
hour at the shortest we see the entire body of the creature; but the
orifice by which it is escaping still holds it by the hinder end of the
body.

Then, without further delay, the coat which it wears for this rough
piece of work begins to split, and the larva skins itself, coming out of
its wrappings head first. It is then the normal larva; the only form
known to Réaumur. The rejected coat forms a suspensory thread, expanding
at its free end to form a little cup. In this cup is inserted the end of
the abdomen of the larva, which, before allowing itself to fall to
earth, takes a sun-bath, grows harder, stretches itself, and tries its
strength, lightly swinging at the end of its life-line.

This little flea, as Réaumur calls it, first white, then amber-coloured,
is precisely the larva which will delve in the earth. The antennæ, of
fair length, are free and waving to and fro; the limbs are bending at
their articulations; the fore-limbs, which are relatively powerful, open
and shut their talons. I can scarcely think of any more curious
spectacle than that of this tiny gymnast hanging by its tail, swinging
to the faintest breath, and preparing in the air for its entry into the
world. It hangs there for a variable period; some larvæ let themselves
fall at the end of half an hour; others spend hours in their
long-stemmed cup; some even remain suspended until the following day.

Whether soon or late, the fall of the larva leaves suspended the thread
by which it hung, the wrappings of the primary larva. When all the brood
have disappeared, the aperture of the nest is thus hung with a branch of
fine, short threads, twisted and knotted together, like dried white of
egg. Each thread is expanded into a tiny cup at its free end. These are
very delicate and ephemeral relics, which perish at a touch. The least
wind quickly blows them away.

Let us return to the larva. Sooner or later, as we have seen, it falls
to the ground, either by accident or intention. The tiny creature, no
bigger than a flea, has preserved its tender newly-hatched flesh from
contact with the rough earth by hanging in the air until its tissues
have hardened. Now it plunges into the troubles of life.

I foresee a thousand dangers ahead. A mere breath of wind may carry this
atom away, and cast it on that inaccessible rock in the midst of a rut
in the road which still contains a little water; or on the sand, the
region of famine where nothing grows; or upon a soil of clay, too
tenacious to be tunnelled. These mortal accidents are frequent, for
gusts of wind are frequent in the windy and already severe weather of
the end of October.

This delicate organism requires a very soft soil, which can easily be
entered, so that it may immediately obtain a suitable shelter. The cold
days are coming; soon the frosts will be here. To wander on the surface
would expose it to grave perils. It must contrive without delay to
descend into the earth, and that to no trivial depth. This is the unique
and imperative condition of safety, and in many cases it is impossible
of realisation. What use are the claws of this tiny flea against rock,
sandstone, or hardened clay? The creature must perish if it cannot find
a subterranean refuge in good time.

Everything goes to show that the necessity of this first foothold on the
soil, subject as it is to so many accidents, is the cause of the great
mortality in the Cigale family. The little black parasite, the destroyer
of eggs, in itself evokes the necessity of a large batch of eggs; and
the difficulty which the larva experiences in effecting a safe lodgment
in the earth is yet another explanation of the fact that the maintenance
of the race at its proper strength requires a batch of three or four
hundred eggs from each mother. Subject to many accidents, the Cigale is
fertile to excess. By the prodigality of her ovaries she conjures the
host of perils which threaten her offspring.

During the rest of my experiment I can at least spare the larvæ the
worst difficulties of their first establishment underground. I take some
soil from the heath, which is very soft and almost black, and I pass it
through a fine sieve. Its colour will enable me more easily to find the
tiny fair-skinned larvæ when I wish to inform myself of passing events;
its lightness makes it a suitable refuge for such weak and fragile
beings. I pack it Pretty firmly in a glass vase; I plant in it a little
tuft of thyme; I sow in it a few grains of wheat. There is no hole at
the bottom of the vase, although there should be one for the benefit of
the thyme and the corn; but the captives would find it and escape by it.
The plantation and the crop will suffer from this lack of drainage, but
at least I am sure of recovering my larvæ with the help of patience and
a magnifying-glass. Moreover, I shall go gently in the matter of
irrigation, giving only just enough water to save the plants from
perishing.

When all is in order, and when the wheat is beginning to shoot, I place
six young larvæ of the Cigale on the surface of the soil. The tiny
creatures begin to pace hither and thither; they soon explore the
surface of their world, and some try vainly to climb the sides of the
vase. Not one of them seems inclined to bury itself; so that I ask
myself anxiously what can be the object of their prolonged and active
explorations. Two hours go by, but their wanderings continue.

What do they want? Food? I offer them some tiny bulbs with bundles of
sprouting roots, a few fragments of leaves and some fresh blades of
grass. Nothing tempts them; nothing brings them to a standstill.
Apparently they are seeking for a favourable point before descending
into the earth. But there is no need for this hesitating exploration on
the soil I have prepared for them; the whole area, or so it seems to me,
lends itself excellently to the operations which I am expecting to see
them commence. Yet apparently it will not answer the purpose.

Under natural conditions a little wandering might well be indispensable.
Spots as soft as my bed of earth from the roots of the briar-heather,
purged of all hard bodies and finely sifted, are rare in nature. Coarse
soils are more usual, on which the tiny creatures could make no
impression. The larva must wander at hazard, must make a pilgrimage of
indefinite duration before finding a favourable place. Very many, no
doubt, perish, exhausted by their fruitless search. A voyage of
exploration in a country a few inches wide evidently forms part of the
curriculum of young Cigales. In my glass prison, so luxuriously
furnished, this pilgrimage is useless. Never mind: it must be
accomplished according to the consecrated rites.

At last my wanderers grow less excited. I see them attack the earth with
the curved talons of their fore-limbs, digging their claws into it and
making such an excavation as the point of a thick needle would enter.
With a magnifying-glass I watch their picks at work. I see their talons
raking atom after atom of earth to the surface. In a few minutes there
is a little gaping well. The larva climbs downwards and buries itself,
henceforth invisible.

On the morrow I turn out the contents of the vase without breaking the
mould, which is held together by the roots of the thyme and the wheat. I
find all my larvæ at the bottom, arrested by the glass. In twenty-four
hours they had sunk themselves through the entire thickness of the
earth--a matter of some four inches. But for obstacle at the bottom they
would have sunk even further.

On the way they have probably encountered the rootlets of my little
plantation. Did they halt in order to take a little nourishment by
implanting their proboscis? This is hardly probable, for a few rootlets
were pressed against the bottom of the glass, but none of my prisoners
were feeding. Perhaps the shock of reversing the pot detached them.

It is obvious that underground there is no other nourishment for them
than the sap of roots. Adult or larva, the Cigale is a strict
vegetarian. As an adult insect it drinks the sap of twigs and branches;
as a larva it sucks the sap of roots. But at what stage does it take the
first sip? That I do not know as yet, but the foregoing experiment seems
to show that the newly hatched larva is in greater haste to burrow deep
into the soil, so as to obtain shelter from the coming winter, than to
station itself at the roots encountered in its passage downwards.

I replace the mass of soil in the vase, and the six exhumed larvæ are
once more placed on the surface of the soil. This time they commence to
dig at once, and have soon disappeared. Finally the vase is placed in my
study window, where it will be subject to the influences, good and ill,
of the outer air.

A month later, at the end of November, I pay the young Cigales a second
visit. They are crouching, isolated at the bottom of the mould. They do
not adhere to the roots; they have not grown; their appearance has not
altered. Such as they were at the beginning of the experiment, such they
are now, but rather less active. Does not this lack of growth during
November, the mildest month of winter, prove that no nourishment is
taken until the spring?

The young Sitares, which are also very minute, directly they issue from
the egg at the entrance of the tubes of the Anthrophorus, remain
motionless, assembled in a heap, and pass the whole of the winter in a
state of complete abstinence. The young Cigales apparently behave in a
very similar fashion. Once they have burrowed to such depths as will
safeguard them from the frosts they sleep in solitude in their winter
quarters, and await the return of spring before piercing some
neighbouring root and taking their first repast.

I have tried unsuccessfully to confirm these deductions by observation.
In April I unpotted my plant of thyme for the third time. I broke up the
mould and spread it under the magnifying-glass. It was like looking for
needles in a haystack; but at last I recovered my little Cigales. They
were dead, perhaps of cold, in spite of the bell-glass with which I had
covered the pot, or perhaps of starvation, if the thyme was not a
suitable food-plant. I give up the problem as too difficult of solution.

To rear such larvæ successfully one would require a deep, extensive bed
of earth which would shelter them from the winter cold; and, as I do not
know what roots they prefer, a varied vegetation, so that the little
creatures could choose according to their taste. These conditions are by
no means impracticable, but how, in the large earthy mass, containing at
least a cubic yard of soil, should we recover the atoms I had so much
trouble to find in a handful of black soil from the heath? Moreover,
such a laborious search would certainly detach the larva from its root.

The early subterranean life of the Cigale escapes us. That of the
maturer larva is no better known. Nothing is more common, while digging
in the fields to any depth, to find these impetuous excavators under the
spade; but to surprise them fixed upon the roots which incontestably
nourish them is quite another matter. The disturbance of the soil warns
the larva of danger. It withdraws its proboscis in order to retreat
along its galleries, and when the spade uncovers it has ceased to feed.

If the hazards of field-work, with its inevitable disturbance of the
larvæ, cannot teach us anything of their subterranean habits, we can at
least learn something of the duration of the larval stage. Some obliging
farmers, who were making some deep excavations in March, were good
enough to collect for me all the larvæ, large and small, unearthed in
the course of their labour. The total collection amounted to several
hundreds. They were divided, by very clearly marked differences of size,
into three categories: the large larvæ, with rudiments of wings, such as
those larvæ caught upon leaving the earth possess; the medium-sized, and
the small. Each of these stages must correspond to a different age. To
these we may add the larvæ produced by the last hatching of eggs,
creatures too minute to be noticed by my rustic helpers, and we obtain
four years as the probable term of the larvæ underground.

The length of their aerial existence is more easily computed. I hear the
first Cigales about the summer solstice. A month later the orchestra has
attained its full power. A very few late singers execute their feeble
solos until the middle of September. This is the end of the concert. As
all the larvæ do not issue from the ground at the same time, it is
evident that the singers of September are not contemporary with those
that began to sing at the solstice. Taking the average between these two
dates, we get five weeks as the probable duration of the Cigales' life
on earth.

Four years of hard labour underground, and a month of feasting in the
sun; such is the life of the Cigale. Do not let us again reproach the
adult insect with his triumphant delirium. For four years, in the
darkness he has worn a dirty parchment overall; for four years he has
mined the soil with his talons, and now the mud-stained sapper is
suddenly clad in the finest raiment, and provided with wings that rival
the bird's; moreover, he is drunken with heat and flooded with light,
the supreme terrestrial joy. His cymbals will never suffice to celebrate
such felicity, so well earned although so ephemeral.






There is another creature of the Midi which is quite as curious and
interesting as the Cigale, but much less famous, as it is voiceless. If
Providence had provided it with cymbals, which are a prime element of
popularity, it would soon have eclipsed the renown of the celebrated
singer, so strange is its shape, and so peculiar its manners. It is
called by the Provençals _lou Prègo-Diéu_, the creature which prays to
God. Its official name is the Praying Mantis (_Mantis religiosa_, Lin.).

For once the language of science and the vocabulary of the peasant
agree. Both represent the Mantis as a priestess delivering oracles, or
an ascetic in a mystic ecstasy. The comparison is a matter of antiquity.
The ancient Greeks called the insect [Greek: Mantis], the divine, the
prophet. The worker in the fields is never slow in perceiving analogies;
he will always generously supplement the vagueness of the facts. He has
seen, on the sun-burned herbage of the meadows, an insect of commanding
appearance, drawn up in majestic attitude. He has noticed its wide,
delicate wings of green, trailing behind it like long linen veils; he
has seen its fore-limbs, its arms, so to speak, raised towards to the
sky in a gesture of invocation. This was enough: popular imagination
has done the rest; so that since the period of classical antiquity the
bushes have been peopled with priestesses emitting oracles and nuns in
prayer.

Good people, how very far astray your childlike simplicity has led you!
These attitudes of prayer conceal the most atrocious habits; these
supplicating arms are lethal weapons; these fingers tell no rosaries,
but help to exterminate the unfortunate passer-by. It is an exception
that we should never look for in the vegetarian family of the
Orthoptera, but the Mantis lives exclusively upon living prey. It is the
tiger of the peaceful insect peoples; the ogre in ambush which demands a
tribute of living flesh. If it only had sufficient strength its
blood-thirsty appetites, and its horrible perfection of concealment
would make it the terror of the countryside. The _Prègo-Diéu_ would
become a Satanic vampire.

Apart from its lethal weapon the Mantis has nothing about it to inspire
apprehension. It does not lack a certain appearance of graciousness,
with its slender body, its elegant waist-line, its tender green
colouring, and its long gauzy wings. No ferocious jaws, opening like
shears; on the contrary, a fine pointed muzzle which seems to be made
for billing and cooing. Thanks to a flexible neck, set freely upon the
thorax, the head can turn to right or left as on a pivot, bow, or raise
itself high in the air. Alone among insects, the Mantis is able to
direct its gaze; it inspects and examines; it has almost a physiognomy.

There is a very great contrast between the body as a whole, which has a
perfectly peaceable aspect, and the murderous fore-limbs. The haunch of
the fore-limb is unusually long and powerful. Its object is to throw
forward the living trap which does not wait for the victim, but goes in
search of it. The snare is embellished with a certain amount of
ornamentation. On the inner face the base of the haunch is decorated
with a pretty black spot relieved by smaller spots of white, and a few
rows of fine pearly spots complete the ornamentation.

The thigh, still longer, like a flattened spindle, carries on the
forward half of the lower face a double row of steely spines. The
innermost row contains a dozen, alternately long and black and short and
green. This alternation of unequal lengths makes the weapon more
effectual for holding. The outer row is simpler, having only four teeth.
Finally, three needle-like spikes, the longest of all, rise behind the
double series of spikes. In short, the thigh is a saw with two parallel
edges, separated by a groove in which the foreleg lies when folded.

The foreleg, which is attached to the thigh by a very flexible
articulation, is also a double-edged saw, but the teeth are smaller,
more numerous, and closer than those of the thigh. It terminates in a
strong hook, the point of which is as sharp as the finest needle: a hook
which is fluted underneath and has a double blade like a pruning-knife.

A weapon admirably adapted for piercing and tearing, this hook has
sometimes left me with visible remembrances. Caught in turn by the
creature which I had just captured, and not having both hands free, I
have often been obliged to get a second person to free me from my
tenacious captive! To free oneself by violence without disengaging the
firmly implanted talons would result in lacerations such as the thorns
of a rosebush will produce. None of our insects is so inconvenient to
handle. The Mantis digs its knife-blades into your flesh, pierces you
with its needles, seizes you as in a vice, and renders self-defence
almost impossible if, wishing to take your quarry alive, you refrain
from crushing it out of existence.

When the Mantis is in repose its weapons are folded and pressed against
the thorax, and are perfectly inoffensive in appearance. The insect is
apparently praying. But let a victim come within reach, and the attitude
of prayer is promptly abandoned. Suddenly unfolded, the three long
joints of the deadly fore-limbs shoot out their terminal talons, which
strike the victim and drag it backwards between the two saw-blades of
the thighs. The vice closes with a movement like that of the forearm
upon the upper arm, and all is over; crickets, grasshoppers, and even
more powerful insects, once seized in this trap with its four rows of
teeth, are lost irreparably. Their frantic struggles will never release
the hold of this terrible engine of destruction.

The habits of the Mantis cannot be continuously studied in the freedom
of the fields; the insect must be domesticated. There is no difficulty
here; the Mantis is quite indifferent to imprisonment under glass,
provided it is well fed. Offer it a tasty diet, feed it daily, and it
will feel but little regret for its native thickets.

For cages I use a dozen large covers of wire gauze, such as are used in
the larder to protect meat from the flies. Each rests upon a tray full
of sand. A dry tuft of thyme and a flat stone on which the eggs may be
laid later on complete the furnishing of such a dwelling. These cages
are placed in a row on the large table in my entomological laboratory,
where the sun shines on them during the greater part of the day. There
I install my captives; some singly, some in groups.

It is in the latter half of August that I begin to meet with the adult
insect on the faded herbage and the brambles at the roadside. The
females, whose bellies are already swollen, are more numerous every day.
Their slender companions, on the other hand, are somewhat rare, and I
often have some trouble in completing my couples; whose relations will
finally be terminated by a tragic consummation. But we will reserve
these amenities for a later time, and will consider the females first.

They are tremendous eaters, so that their entertainment, when it lasts
for some months is not without difficulties. Their provisions must be
renewed every day, for the greater part are disdainfully tasted and
thrown aside. On its native bushes I trust the Mantis is more
economical. Game is not too abundant, so that she doubtless devours her
prey to the last atom; but in my cages it is always at hand. Often,
after a few mouthfuls, the insect will drop the juicy morsel without
displaying any further interest in it. Such is the ennui of captivity!

To provide them with a luxurious table I have to call in assistants. Two
or three of the juvenile unemployed of my neighbourhood, bribed by
slices of bread and jam or of melon, search morning and evening on the
neighbouring lawns, where they fill their game-bags, little cases made
from sections of reeds, with living grasshoppers and crickets. On my own
part, I make a daily tour of the paddock, net in hand, with the object
of obtaining some choice dish for my guests.

These particular captures are destined to show me just how far the
vigour and audacity of the Mantis will lead it. They include the large
grey cricket (_Pachytylus cinerascens_, Fab.), which is larger than the
creature which devours it; the white-faced Decticus, armed with powerful
mandibles from which it is wise to guard one's fingers; the grotesque
Truxalis, wearing a pyramidal mitre on its head; and the Ephippigera of
the vineyards, which clashes its cymbals and carries a sabre at the end
of its barrel-shaped abdomen. To this assortment of disobliging
creatures let us add two horrors: the silky Epeirus, whose disc-shaped
scalloped abdomen is as big as a shilling, and the crowned Epeirus,
which is horribly hairy and corpulent.

I cannot doubt that the Mantis attacks such adversaries in a state of
nature when I see it, under my wire-gauze covers, boldly give battle to
whatever is placed before it. Lying in wait among the bushes it must
profit by the prizes bestowed upon it by hazard, as in its cage it
profits by the wealth of diet due to my generosity. The hunting of such
big game as I offer, which is full of danger, must form part of the
creature's usual life, though it may be only an occasional pastime,
perhaps to the great regret of the Mantis.

Crickets of all kinds, butterflies, bees, large flies of many species,
and other insects of moderate size: such is the prey that we habitually
find in the embrace of the murderous arms of the Mantis. But in my cages
I have never known the audacious huntress to recoil before any other
insect. Grey cricket, Decticus, Epeirus or Truxalis, sooner or later all
are harpooned, held motionless between the saw-edges of the arms, and
deliciously crunched at leisure. The process deserves a detailed
description.

At the sight of a great cricket, which thoughtlessly approaches along
the wire-work of the cover, the Mantis, shaken by a convulsive start,
suddenly assumes a most terrifying posture. An electric shock would not
produce a more immediate result. The transition is so sudden, the
mimicry so threatening, that the unaccustomed observer will draw back
his hand, as though at some unknown danger. Seasoned as I am, I myself
must confess to being startled on occasions when my thoughts have been
elsewhere. The creature spreads out like a fan actuated by a spring, or
a fantastic Jack-in-the-box.

The wing-covers open, and are thrust obliquely aside; the wings spring
to their full width, standing up like parallel screens of transparent
gauze, forming a pyramidal prominence which dominates the back; the end
of the abdomen curls upwards crosier-wise, then falls and unbends itself
with a sort of swishing noise, a _pouf! pouf!_ like the sound emitted by
the feathers of a strutting turkey-cock. One is reminded of the puffing
of a startled adder.

Proudly straddling on its four hind-claws, the insect holds its long
body almost vertical. The murderous fore-limbs, at first folded and
pressed against one another on the thorax, open to their full extent,
forming a cross with the body, and exhibiting the axillæ ornamented with
rows of pearls, and a black spot with a central point of white. These
two eyes, faintly recalling those of the peacock's tail, and the fine
ebony embossments, are part of the blazonry of conflict, concealed upon
ordinary occasions. Their jewels are only assumed when they make
themselves terrible and superb for battle.

Motionless in its weird position, the Mantis surveys the acridian, its
gaze fixed upon it, its head turning gently as on a pivot as the other
changes place. The object of this mimicry seems evident; the Mantis
wishes to terrorise its powerful prey, to paralyse it with fright; for
if not demoralised by fear the quarry might prove too dangerous.

Does it really terrify its prey? Under the shining head of the Decticus,
behind the long face of the cricket, who is to say what is passing? No
sign of emotion can reveal itself upon these immovable masks. Yet it
seems certain that the threatened creature is aware of its danger. It
sees, springing up before it, a terrible spectral form with talons
outstretched, ready to fall upon it; it feels itself face to face with
death, and fails to flee while yet there is time. The creature that
excels in leaping, and might so easily escape from the threatening
claws, the wonderful jumper with the prodigious thighs, remains
crouching stupidly in its place, or even approaches the enemy with
deliberate steps.[2]

It is said that young birds, paralysed with terror by the gaping mouth
of a serpent, or fascinated by its gaze, will allow themselves to be
snatched from the nest, incapable of movement. The cricket will often
behave in almost the same way. Once within reach of the enchantress, the
grappling-hooks are thrown, the fangs strike, the double saws close
together and hold the victim in a vice. Vainly the captive struggles;
his mandibles chew the air, his desperate kicks meet with no resistance.
He has met with his fate. The Mantis refolds her wings, the standard of
battle; she resumes her normal pose, and the meal commences.

In attacking the Truxalis and the Ephippigera, less dangerous game than
the grey cricket and the Decticus, the spectral pose is less imposing
and of shorter duration. It is often enough to throw forward the talons;
this is so in the case of the Epeirus, which is seized by the middle of
the body, without a thought of its venomous claws. With the smaller
crickets, which are the customary diet in my cages as at liberty, the
Mantis rarely employs her means of intimidation; she merely seizes the
heedless passer-by as she lies in wait.

When the insect to be captured may present some serious resistance, the
Mantis is thus equipped with a pose which terrifies or perplexes,
fascinates or absorbs the prey, while it enables her talons to strike
with greater certainty. Her gins close on a demoralised victim,
incapable of or unready for defence. She freezes the quarry with fear or
amazement by suddenly assuming the attitude of a spectre.

The wings play an important part in this fantastic pose. They are very
wide, green on the outer edge, but colourless and transparent elsewhere.
Numerous nervures, spreading out fan-wise, cross them in the direction
of their length. Others, transversal but finer, cut the first at right
angles, forming with them a multitude of meshes. In the spectral
attitude the wings are outspread and erected in two parallel planes
which are almost in contact, like the wings of butterflies in repose.
Between the two the end of the abdomen rapidly curls and uncurls. From
the rubbing of the belly against the network of nervures proceeds the
species of puffing sound which I have compared to the hissing of an
adder in a posture of defence. To imitate this curious sound it is
enough rapidly to stroke the upper face of an outstretched wing with the
tip of the finger-nail.

In a moment of hunger, after a fast of some days, the large grey
cricket, which is as large as the Mantis or larger, will be entirely
consumed with the exception of the wings, which are too dry. Two hours
are sufficient for the completion of this enormous meal. Such an orgy is
rare. I have witnessed it two or three times, always asking myself where
the gluttonous creature found room for so much food, and how it
contrived to reverse in its own favour the axiom that the content is
less than that which contains it. I can only admire the privileges of a
stomach in which matter is digested immediately upon entrance, dissolved
and made away with.

The usual diet of the Mantis under my wire cages consists of crickets of
different species and varying greatly in size. It is interesting to
watch the Mantis nibbling at its cricket, which it holds in the vice
formed by its murderous fore-limbs. In spite of the fine-pointed muzzle,
which hardly seems made for such ferocity, the entire insect disappears
excepting the wings, of which only the base, which is slightly fleshy,
is consumed. Legs, claws, horny integuments, all else is eaten.
Sometimes the great hinder thigh is seized by the knuckle, carried to
the mouth, tasted, and crunched with a little air of satisfaction. The
swollen thigh of the cricket might well be a choice "cut" for the
Mantis, as a leg of lamb is for us!

The attack on the victim begins at the back of the neck or base of the
head. While one of the murderous talons holds the quarry gripped by the
middle of the body, the other presses the head downwards, so that the
articulation between the back and the neck is stretched and opens
slightly. The snout of the Mantis gnaws and burrows into this undefended
spot with a certain persistence, and a large wound is opened in the
neck. At the lesion of the cephalic ganglions the struggles of the
cricket grow less, and the victim becomes a motionless corpse. Thence,
unrestricted in its movements, this beast of prey chooses its mouthfuls
at leisure.






The little we have seen of the customs of the Mantis does not square
very well with the popular name for the insect. From the term
_Prègo-Diéu_ we should expect a peaceful placid creature, devoutly
self-absorbed; and we find a cannibal, a ferocious spectre, biting open
the heads of its captives after demoralising them with terror. But we
have yet to learn the worst. The customs of the Mantis in connection
with its own kin are more atrocious even than those of the spiders, who
bear an ill repute in this respect.

To reduce the number of cages on my big laboratory table, to give myself
a little more room, while still maintaining a respectable menagerie, I
installed several females under one cover. There was sufficient space in
the common lodging and room for the captives to move about, though for
that matter they are not fond of movement, being heavy in the abdomen.
Crouching motionless against the wire work of the cover, they will
digest their food or await a passing victim. They lived, in short, just
as they lived on their native bushes.

Communal life has its dangers. When the hay is low in the manger
donkeys grow quarrelsome, although usually so pacific. My guests might
well, in a season of dearth, have lost their tempers and begun to fight
one another; but I was careful to keep the cages well provided with
crickets, which were renewed twice a day. If civil war broke out famine
could not be urged in excuse.

At the outset matters did not go badly. The company lived in peace, each
Mantis pouncing upon and eating whatever came her way, without
interfering with her neighbours. But this period of concord was of brief
duration. The bellies of the insects grew fuller: the eggs ripened in
their ovaries: the time of courtship and the laying season was
approaching. Then a kind of jealous rage seized the females, although no
male was present to arouse such feminine rivalry. The swelling of the
ovaries perverted my flock, and infected them with an insane desire to
devour one another. There were threats, horrid encounters, and cannibal
feasts. Once more the spectral pose was seen, the hissing of the wings,
and the terrible gesture of the talons outstretched and raised above the
head. The females could not have looked more terrible before a grey
cricket or a Decticus. Without any motives that I could see, two
neighbours suddenly arose in the attitude of conflict. They turned their
heads to the right and the left, provoking one another, insulting one
another. The _pouf! pouf!_ of the wings rubbed by the abdomen sounded
the charge. Although the duel was to terminate at the first scratch,
without any more serious consequence, the murderous talons, at first
folded, open like the leaves of a book, and are extended laterally to
protect the long waist and abdomen. The pose is superb, but less
terrific than that assumed when the fight is to be to the death.

Then one of the grappling-hooks with a sudden spring flies out and
strikes the rival; with the same suddenness it flies back and assumes a
position of guard. The adversary replies with a riposte. The fencing
reminds one not a little of two cats boxing one another's ears. At the
first sign of blood on the soft abdomen, or even at the slightest wound,
one admits herself to be conquered and retires. The other refurls her
battle standard and goes elsewhere to meditate the capture of a cricket,
apparently calm, but in reality ready to recommence the quarrel.

Very often the matter turns out more tragically. In duels to the death
the pose of attack is assumed in all its beauty. The murderous talons
unfold and rise in the air. Woe to the vanquished! for the victor seizes
her in her vice-like grip and at once commences to eat her; beginning,
needless to say, at the back of the neck. The odious meal proceeds as
calmly as if it were merely a matter of munching a grasshopper; and the
survivor enjoys her sister quite as much as lawful game. The spectators
do not protest, being only too willing to do the like on the first
occasion.

Ferocious creatures! It is said that even wolves do not eat one another.
The Mantis is not so scrupulous; she will eat her fellows when her
favourite quarry, the cricket, is attainable and abundant.

These observations reach a yet more revolting extreme. Let us inquire
into the habits of the insect at breeding time, and to avoid the
confusion of a crowd let us isolate the couples under different covers.
Thus each pair will have their own dwelling, where nothing can trouble
their honeymoon. We will not forget to provide them with abundant food;
there shall not be the excuse of hunger for what is to follow.

We are near the end of August. The male Mantis, a slender and elegant
lover, judges the time to be propitious. He makes eyes at his powerful
companion; he turns his head towards her; he bows his neck and raises
his thorax. His little pointed face almost seems to wear an expression.
For a long time he stands thus motionless, in contemplation of the
desired one. The latter, as though indifferent, does not stir. Yet the
lover has seized upon a sign of consent: a sign of which I do not know
the secret. He approaches: suddenly he erects his wings, which are
shaken with a convulsive tremor.

This is his declaration. He throws himself timidly on the back of his
corpulent companion; he clings to her desperately, and steadies himself.
The prelude to the embrace is generally lengthy, and the embrace will
sometimes last for five or six hours.

Nothing worthy of notice occurs during this time. Finally the two
separate, but they are soon to be made one flesh in a much more intimate
fashion. If the poor lover is loved by his mistress as the giver of
fertility, she also loves him as the choicest of game. During the day,
or at latest on the morrow, he is seized by his companion, who first
gnaws through the back of his neck, according to use and wont, and then
methodically devours him, mouthful by mouthful, leaving only the wings.
Here we have no case of jealousy, but simply a depraved taste.

I had the curiosity to wonder how a second male would be received by a
newly fecundated female. The result of my inquiry was scandalous. The
Mantis in only too many cases is never sated with embraces and conjugal
feasts. After a rest, of variable duration, whether the eggs have been
laid or not, a second male is welcomed and devoured like the first. A
third succeeds him, does his duty, and affords yet another meal. A
fourth suffers a like fate. In the course of two weeks I have seen the
same Mantis treat seven husbands in this fashion. She admitted all to
her embraces, and all paid for the nuptial ecstasy with their lives.

There are exceptions, but such orgies are frequent. On very hot days,
when the atmospheric tension is high, they are almost the general rule.
At such times the Mantis is all nerves. Under covers which contain large
households the females devour one another more frequently than ever;
under the covers which contain isolated couples the males are devoured
more eagerly than usual when their office has been fulfilled.

I might urge, in mitigation of these conjugal atrocities, that the
Mantis does not commit them when at liberty. The male, his function once
fulfilled, surely has time to wander off, to escape far away, to flee
the terrible spouse, for in my cages he is given a respite, often of a
whole day. What really happens by the roadside and in the thickets I do
not know; chance, a poor schoolmistress, has never instructed me
concerning the love-affairs of the Mantis when at liberty. I am obliged
to watch events in my laboratory, where the captives, enjoying plenty of
sunshine, well nourished, and comfortably lodged, do not seem in any way
to suffer from nostalgia. They should behave there as they behave under
normal conditions.

Alas! the facts force me to reject the statement that the males have
time to escape; for I once surprised a male, apparently in the
performance of his vital functions, holding the female tightly
embraced--but he had no head, no neck, scarcely any thorax! The female,
her head turned over her shoulder, was peacefully browsing on the
remains of her lover! And the masculine remnant, firmly anchored,
continued its duty!

Love, it is said, is stronger than death! Taken literally, never has an
aphorism received a more striking confirmation. Here was a creature
decapitated, amputated as far as the middle of the thorax; a corpse
which still struggled to give life. It would not relax its hold until
the abdomen itself, the seat of the organs of procreation, was attacked.

The custom of eating the lover after the consummation of the nuptials,
of making a meal of the exhausted pigmy, who is henceforth good for
nothing, is not so difficult to understand, since insects can hardly be
accused of sentimentality; but to devour him during the act surpasses
anything that the most morbid mind could imagine. I have seen the thing
with my own eyes, and I have not yet recovered from my surprise.

Could this unfortunate creature have fled and saved himself, being thus
attacked in the performance of his functions? No. We must conclude that
the loves of the Mantis are fully as tragic, perhaps even more so, than
those of the spider. I do not deny that the limited area of the cage may
favour the massacre of the males; but the cause of such butchering must
be sought elsewhere. It is perhaps a reminiscence of the carboniferous
period when the insect world gradually took shape through prodigious
procreation. The Orthoptera, of which the Mantes form a branch, are the
first-born of the insect world.

Uncouth, incomplete in their transformation, they wandered amidst the
arborescent foliage, already flourishing when none of the insects sprung
of more complex forms of metamorphosis were as yet in existence: neither
butterflies, beetles, flies, nor bees. Manners were not gentle in those
epochs, which were full of the lust to destroy in order to produce; and
the Mantis, a feeble memory of those ancient ghosts, might well preserve
the customs of an earlier age. The utilisation of the males as food is a
custom in the case of other members of the Mantis family. It is, I must
admit, a general habit. The little grey Mantis, so small and looking so
harmless in her cage, which never seeks to harm her neighbours in spite
of her crowded quarters, falls upon her male and devours him as
ferociously as the Praying Mantis. I have worn myself out in trying to
procure the indispensable complements to my female specimens. No sooner
is my capture, strongly winged, vigorous and alert, introduced into the
cage than he is seized, more often than not, by one of the females who
no longer have need of his assistance and devoured. Once the ovaries are
satisfied the two species of Mantis conceive an antipathy for the male;
or rather they regard him merely as a particularly tasty species of
game.





Let us take a more pleasant aspect of the insect whose loves are so
tragic. Its nest is a marvel. In scientific language it is known as the
_ootek_, or the "egg-box." I shall not make use of this barbarous
expression. As one does not speak of the "egg-box" of the titmouse,
meaning "the nest of the titmouse," why should I invoke the box in
speaking of the Mantis? It may look more scientific; but that does not
interest me.

The nest of the Praying Mantis may be found almost everywhere in places
exposed to the sun: on stones, wood, vine stocks, the twigs of bushes,
stems of dried grass, and even on products of human industry, such as
fragments of brick, rags of heavy cloth, and pieces of old boots. Any
support will suffice, so long as it offers inequalities to which the
base of the nest may adhere, and so provide a solid foundation. The
usual dimensions of the nest are one and a half inches long by
three-quarters of an inch wide, or a trifle larger. The colour is a pale
tan, like that of a grain of wheat. Brought in contact with a flame the
nest burns readily, and emits an odour like that of burning silk. The
material of the nest is in fact a substance similar to silk, but instead
of being drawn into a thread it is allowed to harden while a mass of
spongy foam. If the nest is fixed on a branch the base creeps round it,
envelops the neighbouring twigs, and assumes a variable shape according
to the accidents of support; if it is fixed on a flat surface the under
side, which is always moulded by the support, is itself flat. The nest
then takes the form of a demi-ellipsoid, or, in other words, half an egg
cut longitudinally; more or less obtuse at one end, but pointed at the
other, and sometimes ending in a short curved tail.

In all cases the upper face is convex and regular. In it we can
distinguish three well-marked and longitudinal zones. The middle zone,
which is narrower than the others, is composed of thin plates arranged
in couples, and overlapping like the tiles of a roof. The edges of these
plates are free, leaving two parallel series of fissures by which the
young can issue when the eggs are hatched. In a nest recently abandoned
this zone is covered with fine cast-off skins which shiver at the least
breath, and soon disappear when exposed to the open air. I will call
this zone the zone of issue, as it is only along this bell that the
young can escape, being set free by those that have preceded them.

In all other directions the cradle of this numerous family presents an
unbroken wall. The two lateral zones, which occupy the greater part of
the demi-ellipsoid, have a perfect continuity of surface. The little
Mantes, which are very feeble when first hatched, could not possibly
make their way through the tenacious substance of the walls. On the
interior of these walls are a number of fine transverse furrows, signs
of the various layers in which the mass of eggs is disposed.

Let us cut the nest in half transversely. We shall then see that the
mass of eggs constitutes an elongated core, of very firm consistency,
surrounded as to the bottom and sides by a thick porous rind, like
solidified foam. Above the eggs are the curved plates, which are set
very closely and have little freedom; their edges constituting the zone
of issue, where they form a double series of small overlapping scales.

The eggs are set in a yellowish medium of horny appearance. They are
arranged in layers, in lines forming arcs of a circle, with the cephalic
extremities converging towards the zone of issue. This orientation tells
us of the method of delivery. The newly-born larvæ will slip into the
interval between two adjacent flaps or leaves, which form a prolongation
of the core; they will then find a narrow passage, none too easy to
effect, but sufficient, having regard to the curious provision which we
shall deal with directly; they will then reach the zone of issue. There,
under the overlapping scales, two passages of exit open for each layer
of eggs. Half the larvæ will issue by the right-hand passage, half by
that on the left hand. This process is repeated for each layer, from end
to end of the nest.

Let us sum up those structural details, which are not easily grasped
unless one has the nest before one. Lying along the axis of the nest,
and in shape like a date-stone, is the mass of eggs, grouped in layers.
A protective rind, a kind of solidified foam, envelops this core, except
at the top, along the central line, where the porous rind is replaced by
thin overlapping leaves. The free edges of these leaves form the
exterior of the zone of issue; they overlap one another, forming two
series of scales, leaving two exits, in the shape of narrow crevices,
for each layer of eggs.




To be present at the construction of the nest--to learn how the Mantis
contrives to build so complex a structure--such was the main point of my
researches. I succeeded, not without difficulty, as the eggs are laid
without warning and nearly always at night. After a great deal of futile
endeavour, chance at last favoured me. On the 5th of September one of my
guests, fecundated on the 29th of August, began to make her preparations
under my eyes, at four o'clock in the afternoon.

One remark before proceeding: all the nests I have obtained in the
laboratory--and I have obtained a good number--have without exception
been built upon the wire gauze of the covers. I have been careful to
provide the insects with roughened stones and tufts of thyme, both being
very commonly used as foundations in the open fields. The captives have
always preferred the network of wire gauze, which affords a perfectly
firm foundation, as the soft material of the nest becomes incrusted upon
the meshes as it hardens.

In natural conditions the nests are never in any way sheltered; they
support the inclemencies of winter, resist rain, wind, frost, and snow,
without becoming detached. It is true that the female always selects an
uneven support on which the foundations of the nest can be shaped, thus
obtaining a firm hold. The site chosen is always the best obtainable
within reach, and the wire gauze is constantly adopted as the best
foundation obtainable in the cages.

The only Mantis that I was able to observe at the moment of laying her
eggs worked upside-down, clinging to the wire near the top of the cover.
My presence, my magnifying-glass, my investigations did not disturb her
in the least, so absorbed was she in her labours. I was able to lift up
the dome of wire gauze, tilt it, reverse it, turn it over and reverse it
again, without causing the insect to delay her task for a moment. I was
able, with my tweezers, to raise the long wings in order to observe
rather more closely what was taking place beneath them; the Mantis took
absolutely no notice of me. So far all was well; the female did not
move, and lent herself impassively to all the indiscretions of the
observer. Nevertheless, matters did not proceed as I had wished, so
rapid was the operation and so difficult observation.

The end of the abdomen is constantly immersed in a blob of foam, which
does not allow one to grasp the details of the process very clearly.
This foam is of a greyish white, slightly viscous, and almost like
soapsuds. At the moment of its appearance it adheres slightly to the end
of a straw plunged into it. Two minutes later it is solidified and no
longer adheres to the straw. In a short time its consistency is that of
the substance of an old nest.



The foamy mass consists chiefly of air imprisoned in minute bubbles.
This air, which gives the nest a volume very much greater than that of
the abdomen of the Mantis, evidently does not issue from the insect
although the foam appears at the orifice of the genital organs; it is
borrowed from the atmosphere. The Mantis builds more especially with
air, which is eminently adapted to protect the nest against changes
of temperature. She emits a glutinous substance like the liquid
secretion of silk-worms, and with this composition, mixed
instantaneously with the outer air, she produces the foam of which the
nest is constructed.

She whips the secretion as we whip white of egg, in order to make it
rise and stiffen. The extremity of the abdomen opens in a long cleft,
forming two lateral ladles which open and shut with a rapid, incessant
movement, beating the viscous liquid and converting it into foam as it
is secreted. Beside the two oscillating ladles we see the internal
organs rising and falling, protruding and retreating like a piston-rod,
but it is impossible to observe the precise nature of their action,
bathed as they are in the opaque blob of foam.

The end of the abdomen, continually palpitating, rapidly closing and
opening its valves, oscillates right and left like a pendulum. From each
of these oscillations results a layer of eggs in the interior, and a
transversal crevice on the exterior. As it advances in the arc
described, suddenly, and at frequent intervals, it plunges deeper into
the foam, as though burying something at the bottom of the frothy mass.
Each time it does so an egg is doubtless deposited; but the operation is
so rapid, and takes place under conditions so unfavourable for
observation, that I have never once been enabled to see the oviduct at
work. I can only judge of the advent of the eggs by the movements of the
end of the abdomen, which is immersed more deeply with a sudden plunging
movement.

At the same time the viscous composition is emitted in intermittent
waves, and is beaten into a foam by the terminal valves. The foam thus
obtained spreads itself over the sides and at the base of the layer of
eggs, and projects through the meshes of the wire gauze as a result of
the pressure of the abdomen. Thus the spongy envelope is progressively
created as the ovaries are gradually emptied.

I imagine, although I cannot speak as the result of direct observation,
that for the central core, where the eggs are surrounded by a material
more homogeneous than that of the outer shell, the Mantis must employ
her secretion as it emerges, without beating it into a foam. The layer
of eggs once deposited, the two valves would produce the foam required
to envelop the eggs. It is extremely difficult, however, to guess what
occurs beneath the veil of foam-like secretion.

In a recent nest the zone of issue is surrounded by a layer of finely
porous matter, of a pure matt, almost chalky white, which contrasts
distinctly with the remainder of the nest, which is of a dirty white. It
resembles the icing composition made by confectioners with whipped white
of egg, sugar, and starch, for the ornamentation of cakes.

This snowy border is easily crumbled and easily detached. When it
disappears the zone of issue is clearly defined, with its double series
of leaves with free edges. Exposure to the weather, wind, and rain
result in its disappearance, fragment by fragment, so that old nests
preserve no trace of it.

At first sight one is tempted to regard this snowy substance as of a
different material to the rest of the nest. But does the Mantis really
employ two secretions? No. Anatomy, in the first place, assures us of
the unity of the materials of the nest. The organ which secretes the
substance of the nest consists of cylindrical tubes, having a curious
tangled appearance, which are arranged in two groups of twenty each.
They are all filled with a colourless, viscous fluid, which is precisely
similar in appearance in all parts of the organ. There is no indication
of any organ or secretion which could produce a chalky coloration.

Moreover, the method by which the snowy band is formed rejects the idea
of a different material. We see the two caudal appendices of the Mantis
sweeping the surface of the foamy mass, and skimming, so to speak, the
cream of the cream, gathering it together, and retaining it along the
hump of the nest in such a way as to form a band like a ribbon of icing.
What remains after this scouring process, or what oozes from the band
before it has set, spreads over the sides of the nest in a thin layer of
bubbles so fine that they cannot be distinguished without the aid of a
lens.

We often see a torrent of muddy water, full of clay in suspension,
covered with great streaks and masses of foam. On this fundamental foam,
so to call it, which is soiled with earthy matters, we see here and
there masses of a beautiful white foam, in which the bubbles are much
smaller. A process of selection results from variations in density, and
here and there we see foam white as snow resting on the dirty foam from
which it is produced. Something of the kind occurs when the Mantis
builds her nest. The two appendices whip the viscous secretion of the
glands into foam. The lightest portion, whose bubbles are of the
greatest tenuity, which is white on account of its finer porosity, rises
to the surface, where the caudal filaments sweep it up and gather it
into the snowy ribbon which runs along the summit of the nest.

So far, with a little patience, observation is possible and yields a
satisfactory result. It becomes impossible in the matter of the complex
central zone, where the exits for the larvæ are contrived through the
double series of overlapping leaves. The little I have been able to
learn amounts to this: The end of the abdomen, deeply cleft in a
horizontal direction, forms a kind of fork, of which the upper extremity
remains almost motionless, while the lower continuously oscillates,
producing the foam and depositing the eggs. The creation of the central
zone is certainly the work of the upper extremity.

It is always to be seen in the continuation of this central zone, in the
midst of the fine white foam gathered up by the caudal filaments. The
latter delimit the zone, one working on either side, feeling the edges
of the belt, and apparently testing it and judging its progress. These
two filaments are like two long fingers of exquisite sensitiveness,
which direct the difficult operation.

But how are the two series of scales obtained, and the fissures, the
gates of exit which they shelter? I do not know; I cannot even imagine.
I leave the end of the problem to others.

What a wonderful mechanism is this, that has the power to emit and to
form, so quickly and methodically, the horny medium of the central
kernel, the foam which forms the protective walls, the white creamy foam
of the ribbon which runs along the central zone, the eggs, and the
fecundating liquid, while at the same time it constructs the overlapping
leaves, the imbricated scales, and the alternating series of open
fissures! We are lost in the face of such a wonder. Yet how easily the
work is performed! Clinging to the wire gauze, forming, so to speak, the
axis of her nest, the Mantis barely moves. She bestows not a glance on
the marvel which is growing behind her; her limbs are used only for
support; they take no part in the building of the nest. The nest is
built, if we may say so, automatically. It is not the result of industry
and the cunning of instinct; it is a purely mechanical task, which is
conditioned by the implements, by the organisation of the insect. The
nest, complex though it is in structure, results solely from the
functioning of the organs, as in our human industries a host of objects
are mechanically fashioned whose perfection puts the dexterity of the
fingers to shame.

From another point of view the nest of the Mantis is even more
remarkable. It forms an excellent application of one of the most
valuable lessons of physical science in the matter of the conservation
of heat. The Mantis has outstripped humanity in her knowledge of thermic
nonconductors or insulators.

The famous physicist Rumford was responsible for a very pretty
experiment designed to demonstrate the low conductivity of air where
heat other than radiant heat is concerned. The famous scientist
surrounded a frozen cheese by a mass of foam consisting of well-beaten
eggs. The whole was exposed to the heat of an oven. In a few minutes a
light omelette was obtained, piping hot, but the cheese in the centre
was as cold as at the outset. The air imprisoned in the bubbles of the
surrounding froth accounts for the phenomenon. Extremely refractory to
heat, it had absorbed the heat of the oven and had prevented it from
reaching the frozen substance in the centre of the omelette.

Now, what does the Mantis do? Precisely what Rumford did; she whips her
albumen to obtain a soufflée, a froth composed of myriads of tiny
air-bubbles, which will protect the germs of life contained in the
central core. It is true that her aim is reversed; the coagulated foam
of the nest is a safeguard against cold, not against heat, but what will
afford protection from the one will afford protection from the other; so
that Rumford, had he wished, might equally well have maintained a hot
body at a high temperature in a refrigerator.

Rumford understood the athermic properties of a blanket of air-cells,
thanks to the accumulated knowledge of his predecessors and his own
studies and experiments. How is it that the Mantis, for who knows how
many ages, has been able to outstrip our physicists in this problem in
calorics? How did she learn to surround her eggs with this mass of
solidifying froth, so that it was able, although fixed to a bough or a
stone without other shelter, to brave with impunity the rigours of
winter?

The other Mantes found in my neighbourhood, which are the only species
of which I can speak with full knowledge, employ or omit the envelope of
solidifying froth accordingly as the eggs are or are not intended to
survive the winter. The little Grey Mantis (_Ameles decolor_), which
differs so widely from the Praying Mantis in that the wings of the
female are almost completely absent, builds a nest hardly as large as a
cherry-stone, and covers it skilfully with a porous rind. Why this
cellular envelope? Because the nest of the _Ameles_, like that of the
Praying Mantis, has to endure through the winter, fixed to a stone or a
twig, and is thus exposed to the full severity of the dangerous season.

The _Empusa pauperata_, on the other hand (one of the strangest of
European insects), builds a nest as small as that of the _Ameles_,
although the insect itself is as large as the Praying Mantis. This nest
is quite a small structure, composed of a small number of cells,
arranged side by side in three or four series, sloping together at the
neck. Here there is a complete absence of the porous envelope, although
the nest is exposed to the weather, like the previous examples, affixed
to some twig or fragment of rock. The lack of the insulating rind is a
sign of different climatic conditions. The eggs of the _Empusa_ hatch
shortly after they are laid, in warm and sunny weather. Not being
exposed to the asperities of the winter, they need no protection other
than the thin egg-cases themselves.

Are these nice and reasonable precautions, which rival the experiment of
Rumford, a fortuitous result?--one of the innumerable combinations which
fall from the urn of chance? If so, let us not recoil before the absurd:
let us allow that the blindness of chance is gifted with marvellous
foresight.

The Praying Mantis commences her nest at the blunter extremity, and
completes it at the pointed tail. The latter is often prolonged in a
sort of promontory, in which the insect expends the last drop of
glutinous liquid as she stretches herself after her task. A sitting of
two hours, more or less, without interruption, is required for the total
accomplishment of the work. Directly the period of labour is over, the
mother withdraws, indifferent henceforth to her completed task. I have
watched her, half expecting to see her return, to discover some
tenderness for the cradle of her family. But no: not a trace of maternal
pleasure. The work is done, and concerns her no longer. Crickets
approach; one of them even squats upon the nest. The Mantis takes no
notice of them. They are peaceful intruders, to be sure; but even were
they dangerous, did they threaten to rifle the nest, would she attack
them and drive them away? Her impassive demeanour convinces me that she
would not. What is the nest to her? She is no longer conscious of it.

I have spoken of the many embraces to which the Praying Mantis submits,
and of the tragic end of the male, who is almost invariably devoured as
though a lawful prey. In the space of a fortnight I have known the same
female to adventure upon matrimony no less than seven times. Each time
the readily consoled widow devoured her mate. Such habits point to
frequent laying; and we find the appearance confirmed, though not as a
general rule. Some of my females gave me one nest only; others two, the
second as capacious as the first. The most fruitful of all produced
three; of these the two first were of normal dimensions, while the third
was about half the usual size.

From this we can reckon the productivity of the insect's ovaries. From
the transverse fissures of the median zone of the nest it is easy to
estimate the layers of eggs; but these layers contain more or fewer eggs
according to their position in the middle of the nest or near the ends.
The numbers contained by the widest and narrowest layers will give us
an approximate average. I find that a nest of fair size contains about
four hundred eggs. Thus the maker of the three nests, of which the last
was half as large as the others, produced no less than a thousand eggs;
eight hundred were deposited in the larger nests and two or three
hundred in the smaller. Truly a fine family, but a thought ungainly,
were it not that only a few of its members can survive.

Of a fair size, of curious structure, and well in evidence on its twig
or stone, the nest of the Praying Mantis could hardly escape the
attention of the Provençal peasant. It is well known in the country
districts, where it goes by the name of _tigno_; it even enjoys a
certain celebrity. But no one seems to be aware of its origin. It is
always a surprise to my rustic neighbours when they learn that the
well-known _tigno_ is the nest of the common Mantis, the _Prègo-Diéu_.
This ignorance may well proceed from the nocturnal habits of the Mantis.
No one has caught the insect at work upon her nest in the silence of the
night. The link between the artificer and the work is missing, although
both are well known to the villager.

No matter: the singular object exists; it catches the eye, it attracts
attention. It must therefore be good for something; it must possess
virtue of some kind. So in all ages have the simple reasoned, in the
childlike hope of finding in the unfamiliar an alleviation of their
sorrows.

By general agreement the rural pharmacopoeia of Provence pronounces
the _tigno_ to be the best of remedies against chilblains. The method of
employment is of the simplest. The nest is cut in two, squeezed and the
affected part is rubbed with the cut surface as the juices flow from
it. This specific, I am told, is sovereign. All sufferers from blue and
swollen fingers should without fail, according to traditional usage,
have recourse to the _tigno_.

Is it really efficacious? Despite the general belief, I venture to doubt
it, after fruitless experiments on my own fingers and those of other
members of my household during the winter of 1895, when the severe and
persistent cold produced an abundant crop of chilblains. None of us,
treated with the celebrated unguent, observed the swelling to diminish;
none of us found that the pain and discomfort was in the least assuaged
by the sticky varnish formed by the juices of the crushed _tigno_. It is
not easy to believe that others are more successful, but the popular
renown of the specific survives in spite of all, probably thanks to a
simple accident of identity between the name of the remedy and that of
the infirmity: the Provençal for "chilblain" is _tigno_. From the moment
when the chilblain and the nest of the Mantis were known by the same
name were not the virtues of the latter obvious? So are reputations
created.

In my own village, and doubtless to some extent throughout the Midi, the
_tigno_--the nest of the Mantis, not the chilblain--is also reputed as a
marvellous cure for toothache. It is enough to carry it upon the person
to be free of that lamentable affection. Women wise in such matters
gather them beneath a propitious moon, and preserve them piously in some
corner of the clothes-press or wardrobe. They sew them in the lining of
the pocket, lest they should be pulled out with the handkerchief and
lost; they will grant the loan of them to a neighbour tormented by some
refractory molar. "Lend me thy _tigno_: I am suffering martyrdom!" begs
the owner of a swollen face.--"Don't on any account lose it!" says the
lender: "I haven't another, and we aren't at the right time of moon!"

We will not laugh at the credulous victim; many a remedy triumphantly
puffed on the latter pages of the newspapers and magazines is no more
effectual. Moreover, this rural simplicity is surpassed by certain old
books which form the tomb of the science of a past age. An English
naturalist of the sixteenth century, the well-known physician, Thomas
Moffat, informs us that children lost in the country would inquire their
way of the Mantis. The insect consulted would extend a limb, indicating
the direction to be taken, and, says the author, scarcely ever was the
insect mistaken. This pretty story is told in Latin, with an adorable
simplicity.






In writing the first lines of this chapter I am reminded of the
slaughter-pens of Chicago; of those horrible meat factories which in the
course of the year cut up one million and eighty thousand bullocks and
seventeen hundred thousand swine, which enter a train of machinery alive
and issue transformed into cans of preserved meat, sausages, lard, and
rolled hams. I am reminded of these establishments because the beetle I
am about to speak of will show us a compatible celerity of butchery.

In a spacious, glazed insectorium I have twenty-five Carabi aurati. At
present they are motionless, lying beneath a piece of board which I gave
them for shelter. Their bellies cooled by the sand, their backs warmed
by the board, which is visited by the sun, they slumber and digest their
food. By good luck I chance upon a procession of pine-caterpillars, in
process of descending from their tree in search of a spot suitable for
burial, the prelude to the phase of the subterranean chrysalis. Here is
an excellent flock for the slaughter-house of the Carabi.

I capture them and place them in the insectorium. The procession is
quickly re-formed; the caterpillars, to the number of perhaps a hundred
and fifty, move forward in an undulating line. They pass near the piece
of board, one following the other like the pigs at Chicago. The moment
is propitious. I cry Havoc! and let loose the dogs of war: that is to
say, I remove the plank.

The sleepers immediately awake, scenting the abundant prey. One of them
runs forward; three, four, follow; the whole assembly is aroused; those
who are buried emerge; the whole band of cut-throats falls upon the
passing flock. It is a sight never to be forgotten. The mandibles of the
beetles are at work in all directions; the procession is attacked in the
van, in the rear, in the centre; the victims are wounded on the back or
the belly at random. The furry skins are gaping with wounds; their
contents escape in knots of entrails, bright green with their aliment,
the needles of the pine-tree; the caterpillars writhe, struggling with
loop-like movements, gripping the sand with their feet, dribbling and
gnashing their mandibles. Those as yet unwounded are digging desperately
in the attempt to take refuge underground. Not one succeeds. They are
scarcely half buried before some beetle runs to them and destroys them
by an eviscerating wound.

If this massacre did not occur in a dumb world we should hear all the
horrible tumult of the slaughter-houses of Chicago. But only the ear of
the mind can hear the shrieks and lamentations of the eviscerated
victims. For myself, I possess this ear, and am full of remorse for
having provoked such sufferings.

Now the beetles are rummaging in all directions through the heap of
dead and dying, each tugging and tearing at a morsel which he carries
off to swallow in peace, away from the inquisitive eyes of his fellows.
This mouthful disposed of, another is hastily cut from the body of some
victim, and the process is repeated so long as there are bodies left. In
a few minutes the procession is reduced to a few shreds of still
palpitating flesh.

There were a hundred and fifty caterpillars; the butchers were
twenty-five. This amounts to six victims dispatched by each beetle. If
the insect had nothing to do but to kill, like the knackers in the meat
factories, and if the staff numbered a hundred--a very modest figure as
compared with the staff of a lard or bacon factory--then the total
number of victims, in a day of ten hours, would be thirty-six thousand.
No Chicago "cannery" ever rivalled such a result.

The speed of assassination is the more remarkable when we consider the
difficulties of attack. The beetle has no endless chain to seize its
victim by one leg, hoist it up, and swing it along to the butcher's
knife; it has no sliding plank to hold the victim's head beneath the
pole-axe of the knacker; it has to fall upon its prey, overpower it, and
avoid its feet and its mandibles. Moreover, the beetle eats its prey on
the spot as it kills. What slaughter there would be if the insect
confined itself to killing!

What do we learn from the slaughter-houses of Chicago and the fate of
the beetle's victims? This: That the man of elevated morality is so far
a very rare exception. Under the skin of the civilised being there lurks
almost always the ancestor, the savage contemporary of the cave-bear.
True humanity does not yet exist; it is growing, little by little,
created by the ferment of the centuries and the dictates of conscience;
but it progresses towards the highest with heartbreaking slowness.

It was only yesterday that slavery finally disappeared: the basis of the
ancient social organism; only yesterday was it realised that man, even
though black, is really man and deserves to be treated accordingly.

What formerly was woman? She was what she is to-day in the East: a
gentle animal without a soul. The question was long discussed by the
learned. The great divine of the seventeenth century, Bossuet himself,
regarded woman as the diminutive of man. The proof was in the origin of
Eve: she was the superfluous bone, the thirteenth rib which Adam
possessed in the beginning. It has at last been admitted that woman
possesses a soul like our own, but even superior in tenderness and
devotion. She has been allowed to educate herself, which she has done at
least as zealously as her coadjutor. But the law, that gloomy cavern
which is still the lurking-place of so many barbarities, continues to
regard her as an incapable and a minor. The law in turn will finally
surrender to the truth.

The abolition of slavery and the education of woman: these are two
enormous strides upon the path of moral progress. Our descendants will
go farther. They will see, with a lucidity capable of piercing every
obstacle, that war is the most hopeless of all absurdities. That our
conquerors, victors of battles and destroyers of nations, are detestable
scourges; that a clasp of the hand is preferable to a rifle-shot; that
the happiest people is not that which possesses the largest battalions,
but that which labours in peace and produces abundantly; and that the
amenities of existence do not necessitate the existence of frontiers,
beyond which we meet with all the annoyances of the custom-house, with
its officials who search our pockets and rifle our luggage.

Our descendants will see this and many other marvels which to-day are
extravagant dreams. To what ideal height will the process of evolution
lead mankind? To no very magnificent height, it is to be feared. We are
afflicted by an indelible taint, a kind of original sin, if we may call
sin a state of things with which our will has nothing to do. We are made
after a certain pattern and we can do nothing to change ourselves. We
are marked with the mark of the beast, the taint of the belly, the
inexhaustible source of bestiality.

The intestine rules the world. In the midst of our most serious affairs
there intrudes the imperious question of bread and butter. So long as
there are stomachs to digest--and as yet we are unable to dispense with
them--we must find the wherewithal to fill them, and the powerful will
live by the sufferings of the weak. Life is a void that only death can
fill. Hence the endless butchery by which man nourishes himself, no less
than beetles and other creatures; hence the perpetual holocausts which
make of this earth a knacker's yard, beside which the slaughter-houses
of Chicago are as nothing.

But the feasters are legion, and the feast is not abundant in
proportion. Those that have not are envious of those that have; the
hungry bare their teeth at the satisfied. Then follows the battle for
the right of possession. Man raises armies; to defend his harvests, his
granaries, and his cellars, he resorts to warfare. When shall we see the
end of it? Alas, and many times alas! As long as there are wolves in the
world there must be watch-dogs to defend the flock.

This train of thought has led us far away from our beetles. Let us
return to them. What was my motive in provoking the massacre of this
peaceful procession of caterpillars who were on the point of self-burial
when I gave them over to the butchers? Was it to enjoy the spectacle of
a frenzied massacre? By no means; I have always pitied the sufferings of
animals, and the smallest life is worthy of respect. To overcome this
pity there needed the exigencies of scientific research--exigencies
which are often cruel.

In this case the subject of research was the habits of the Carabus
auratus, the little vermin-killer of our gardens, who is therefore
vulgarly known as the Gardener Beetle. How far is this title deserved?
What game does the Gardener Beetle hunt? From what vermin does he free
our beds and borders? His dealings with the procession of
pine-caterpillars promise much. Let us continue our inquiry.

On various occasions about the end of April the gardens afford me the
sight of such processions, sometimes longer, sometimes shorter. I
capture them and place them in the vivarium. Bloodshed commences the
moment the banquet is served. The caterpillars are eviscerated; each by
a single beetle, or by several simultaneously. In less than fifteen
minutes the flock is completely exterminated. Nothing remains but a few
shapeless fragments, which are carried hither and thither, to be
consumed at leisure under the shelter of the wooden board. One well-fed
beetle decamps, his booty in his jaws, hoping to finish his feast in
peace. He is met by companions who are attracted by the morsel hanging
from the mandibles of the fugitive, and audaciously attempt to rob him.
First two, then three, they all endeavour to deprive the legitimate
owner of his prize. Each seizes the fragment, tugs at it, commences to
swallow it without further ado. There is no actual battle; no violent
assaults, as in the case of dogs disputing a bone. Their efforts are
confined to the attempted theft. If the legitimate owner retains his
hold they consume his booty in common, mandibles to mandibles, until the
fragment is torn or bitten through, and each retires with his mouthful.

As I found to my cost in bygone experiments, the pine-caterpillar wields
a violently corrosive poison, which produces a painful rash upon the
hands. It must therefore, one would think, form a somewhat highly
seasoned diet. The beetles, however, delight in it. No matter how many
flocks I provide them with, they are all consumed. But no one, that I
know of, has ever found the Golden Gardener and its larva in the silken
cocoons of the Bombyx. I do not expect ever to make such a discovery.
These cocoons are inhabited only in winter, when the Gardener is
indifferent to food, and lies torpid in the earth. In April, however,
when the processions of larvæ are seeking a suitable site for burial and
metamorphosis, the Gardener should profit largely by its good fortune
should it by any chance encounter them.

The furry nature of the victim does not in the least incommode the
beetle; but the hairiest of all our caterpillars, the Hedgehog
Caterpillar, with its undulating mane, partly red and partly black, does
seem to be too much for the beetle. Day after day it wanders about the
vivarium in company with the assassins. The latter apparently ignore its
presence. From time to time one of them will halt, stroll round the
hairy creature, examine it, and try to penetrate the tangled fleece.
Immediately repulsed by the long, dense palisade of hairs, he retires
without inflicting a wound, and the caterpillar proceeds upon its way
with undulating mane, in pride and security.

But this state of things cannot last. In a hungry moment, emboldened
moreover by the presence of his fellows, the cowardly creature decides
upon a serious attack. There are four of them; they industriously attack
the caterpillar, which finally succumbs, assaulted before and behind. It
is eviscerated and swallowed as greedily as though it were a defenceless
grub.

According to the hazard of discovery, I provision my menagerie with
various caterpillars, some smooth and others hairy. All are accepted
with the utmost eagerness, so long as they are of average size as
compared with the beetles themselves. If too small they are despised, as
they would not yield a sufficient mouthful. If they are too large the
beetle is unable to handle them. The caterpillars of the Sphinx moth and
the Great Peacock moth, for example, would fall an easy prey to the
beetle were it not that at the first bite of the assailant the intended
victim, by a contortion of its powerful flanks, sends the former
flying. After several attacks, all of which end by the beetle being
flung back to some considerable distance, the insect regretfully
abandons his prey. I have kept two strong and lively caterpillars for a
fortnight in the cage of my golden beetles, and nothing more serious
occurred. The trick of the suddenly extended posterior was too much for
the ferocious mandibles.

The chief utility of the Golden Gardener lies in its extermination of
all caterpillars that are not too powerful to attack. It has one
limitation, however: it is not a climber. It hunts on the ground; never
in the foliage overhead. I have never seen it exploring the twigs of
even the smallest of bushes. When caged it pays no attention to the most
enticing caterpillars if the latter take refuge in a tuft of thyme, at a
few inches above the ground. This is a great pity. If only the beetle
could climb how rapidly three or four would rid our cabbages of that
grievous pest, the larva of the white cabbage butterfly! Alas! the best
have always some failing, some vice.

To exterminate caterpillars: that is the true vocation of the Golden
Gardener. It is annoying that it can give us but little or no assistance
in ridding us of another plague of the kitchen-garden: the snail. The
slime of the snail is offensive to the beetle; it is safe from the
latter unless crippled, half crushed, or projecting from the shell. Its
relatives, however, do not share this dislike. The horny Procrustes, the
great Scarabicus, entirely black and larger than the Carabus, attacks
the snail most valiantly, and empties its shell to the bottom, in spite
of the desperate secretion of slime. It is a pity that the Procrustes is
not more frequently found in our gardens; it would be an excellent
gardener's assistant.






It is generally recognized that the Carabus auratus is an active
exterminator of caterpillars; on this account in particular it deserves
its title of Gardener Beetle; it is the vigilant policeman of our
kitchen-gardens, our flower-beds and herbaceous borders. If my inquiries
add nothing to its established reputation in this respect, they will
nevertheless, in the following pages, show the insect in a light as yet
unsuspected. The ferocious beast of prey, the ogre who devours all
creatures that are not too strong for him, is himself killed and eaten:
by his fellows, and by many others.

Standing one day in the shadow of the plane-trees that grow before my
door, I see a Golden Gardener go by as if on pressing business. The
pilgrim is well met; he will go to swell the contents of my vivarium. In
capturing him I notice that the extremities of the wing-covers are
slightly damaged. Is this the result of a struggle between rivals? There
is nothing to tell me. The essential thing is that the insect should not
be handicapped by any serious injury. Inspected, and found to be without
any serious wound and fit for service, it is introduced into the glass
dwelling of its twenty-five future companions.

Next day I look for the new inmate. It is dead. Its comrades have
attacked it during the night and have cleaned out its abdomen,
insufficiently protected by the damaged wing-covers. The operation has
been performed very cleanly, without any dismemberment. Claws, head,
corselet, all are correctly in place; the abdomen only has a gaping
wound through which its contents have been removed. What remains is a
kind of golden shell, formed of the two conjoined elytra. The shell of
an oyster emptied of its inmate is not more empty.

This result astonishes me, for I have taken good care that the cage
should never be long without food. The snail, the pine-cockchafer, the
Praying Mantis, the lob-worm, the caterpillar, and other favourite
insects, have all been given in alternation and in sufficient
quantities. In devouring a brother whose damaged armour lent itself to
any easy attack my beetles had not the excuse of hunger.

Is it their custom to kill the wounded and to eviscerate such of their
fellows as suffer damage? Pity is unknown among insects. At the sight of
the desperate struggles of a crippled fellow-creature none of the same
family will cry a halt, none will attempt to come to its aid. Among the
carnivorous insects the matter may develop to a tragic termination. With
them, the passers-by will often run to the cripple. But do they do so in
order to help it? By no means: merely to taste its flesh, and, if they
find it agreeable, to perform the most radical cure of its ills by
devouring it.

It is possible, therefore, that the Gardener with the injured
wing-covers had tempted his fellows by the sight of his imperfectly
covered back. They saw in their defenceless comrade a permissible
subject for dissection. But do they respect one another when there is no
previous wound? At first there was every appearance that their relations
were perfectly pacific. During their sanguinary meals there is never a
scuffle between the feasters; nothing but mere mouth-to-mouth thefts.
There are no quarrels during the long siestas in the shelter of the
board. Half buried in the cool earth, my twenty-five subjects slumber
and digest their food in peace; they lie sociably near one another, each
in his little trench. If I raise the plank they awake and are off,
running hither and thither, constantly encountering one another without
hostilities.

The profoundest peace is reigning, and to all appearances will last for
ever, when in the early days of June I find a dead Gardener. Its limbs
are intact; it is reduced to the condition of a mere golden husk; like
the defenceless beetle I have already spoken of, it is as empty as an
oyster-shell. Let us examine the remains. All is intact, save the huge
breach in the abdomen. So the insect was sound and unhurt when the
others attacked it.

A few days pass, and another Gardener is killed and dealt with as
before, with no disorder in the component pieces of its armour. Let us
place the dead insect on its belly; it is to all appearances untouched.
Place it on its back; it is hollow, and has no trace of flesh left
beneath its carapace. A little later, and I find another empty relic;
then another, and yet another, until the population of my menagerie is
rapidly shrinking. If this insensate massacre continues I shall soon
find my cage depopulated.

Are my beetles hoary with age? Do they die a natural death, and do the
survivors then clean out the bodies? Or is the population being reduced
at the expense of sound and healthy insects? It is not easy to elucidate
the matter, since the atrocities are commonly perpetrated in the night.
But, finally, with vigilance, on two occasions, I surprise the beetles
at their work in the light of day.

Towards the middle of June a female attacks a male before my eyes. The
male is recognisable by his slightly smaller size. The operation
commences. Raising the ends of the wing-covers, the assailant seizes her
victim by the extremity of the abdomen, from the dorsal side. She pulls
at him furiously, eagerly munching with her mandibles. The victim, who
is in the prime of life, does not defend himself, nor turn upon his
assailant. He pulls his hardest in the opposite direction to free
himself from those terrible fangs; he advances and recoils as he is
overpowered by or overpowers the assassin; and there his resistance
ends. The struggle lasts a quarter of an hour. Other beetles, passing
by, call a halt, and seem to say "My turn next!" Finally, redoubling his
efforts, the male frees himself and flies. If he had not succeeded in
escaping the ferocious female would undoubtedly have eviscerated him.


A few days later I witness a similar scene, but this time the tragedy is
played to the end. Once more it is a female who seizes a male from
behind. With no other protest except his futile efforts to escape, the
victim is forced to submit. The skin finally yields; the wound
enlarges, and the viscera are removed and devoured by the matron, who
empties the carapace, her head buried in the body of her late companion.
The legs of the miserable victim tremble, announcing the end. The
murderess takes no notice; she continues to rummage as far as she can
reach for the narrowing of the thorax. Nothing is left but the closed
boat-shaped wing-covers and the fore parts of the body. The empty shell
is left lying on the scene of the tragedy.

In this way must have perished the beetles--always males--whose remains
I find in the cage from time to time; thus the survivors also will
perish. Between the middle of June and the 1st of August the inhabitants
of the cage, twenty-five in number at the outset, are reduced to five,
all of whom are females. All the males, to the number of twenty, have
disappeared, eviscerated and completely emptied. And by whom? Apparently
by the females.

That this is the case is attested in the first place by the two assaults
of which I was perchance the witness; on two occasions, in broad
daylight, I saw the female devouring the male, having opened the abdomen
under the wing-covers, or having at least attempted to do so. As for the
rest of the massacres, although direct observation was lacking, I had
one very valuable piece of evidence. As we have seen, the victim does
not retaliate, does not defend himself, but simply tries to escape by
pulling himself away.

If it were a matter of an ordinary fight, a conflict such as might arise
in the struggle for life, the creature attacked would obviously
retaliate, since he is perfectly well able to do so; in an ordinary
conflict he would meet force by force, and return bite for bite. His
strength would enable him to come well out of a struggle, but the
foolish creature allows himself to be devoured without retaliating. It
seems as though an invincible repugnance prevents him from offering
resistance and in turn devouring the devourer. This tolerance reminds
one of the scorpion of Languedoc, which on the termination of the
hymeneal rites allows the female to devour him without attempting to
employ his weapon, the venomous dagger which would form a formidable
defence; it reminds us also of the male of the Praying Mantis, which
still embraces the female though reduced to a headless trunk, while the
latter devours him by small mouthfuls, with no rebellion or defence on
his part. There are other examples of hymeneal rites to which the male
offers no resistance.

The males of my menagerie of Gardeners, one and all eviscerated, speak
of similar customs. They are the victims of the females when the latter
have no further use for them. For four months, from April to August, the
insects pair off continually; sometimes tentatively, but usually the
mating is effective. The business of mating is all but endless for these
fiery spirits.

The Gardener is prompt and businesslike in his affairs of the heart. In
the midst of the crowd, with no preliminary courtship, the male throws
himself upon the female. The female thus embraced raises her head a
trifle as a sign of acquiescence, while the cavalier beats the back of
her neck with his antennæ. The embrace is brief, and they abruptly
separate; after a little refreshment the two parties are ready for other
adventures, and yet others, so long as there are males available. After
the feast, a brief and primitive wooing; after the wooing, the feast; in
such delights the life of the Gardener passes.

The females of my collection were in no proper ratio to the number of
aspiring lovers; there were five females to twenty males. No matter;
there was no rivalry, no hustling; all went peacefully and sooner or
later each was satisfied.

I should have preferred a better proportioned assembly. Chance, not
choice, had given me that at my disposal. In the early spring I had
collected all the Gardeners I could find under the stones of the
neighbourhood, without distinguishing the sexes, for they are not easy
to recognise merely by external characteristics. Later on I learned by
watching them that a slight excess of size was the distinctive sign of
the female. My menagerie, so ill-proportioned in the matter of sex, was
therefore the result of chance. I do not suppose this preponderance of
males exists in natural conditions. On the other hand, one never sees
such numerous groups at liberty, in the shelter of the same stone. The
Gardener lives an almost solitary life; it is rarely that one finds two
or three beneath the same object of shelter. The gathering in my
menagerie was thus exceptional, although it did not lead to confusion.
There is plenty of room in the glass cage for excursions to a distance
and for all their habitual manoeuvres. Those who wish for solitude can
obtain it; those who wish for company need not seek it.

For the rest, captivity cannot lie heavily on them; that is proved by
their frequent feasts, their constant mating. They could not thrive
better in the open; perhaps not so well, for food is less abundant under
natural conditions. In the matter of well-being the prisoners are in a
normal condition, favourable to the maintenance of their usual habits.

It is true that encounters of beetle with beetle are more frequent here
than in the open. Hence, no doubt, arise more opportunities for the
females to persecute the males whom they no longer require; to fall upon
them from the rear and eviscerate them. This pursuit of their onetime
lovers is aggravated by their confined quarters; but it certainly is not
caused thereby, for such customs are not suddenly originated.

The mating season over, the female encountering a male in the open must
evidently regard him as fair game, and devour him as the termination of
the matrimonial rites. I have turned over many stones, but have never
chanced upon this spectacle, but what has occurred in my menagerie is
sufficient to convince me. What a world these beetles live in, where the
matron devours her mate so soon as her fertility delivers her from the
need of him! And how lightly the males must be regarded by custom, to be
served in this manner!

Is this practice of post-matrimonial cannibalism a general custom in the
insect world? For the moment, I can recollect only three characteristic
examples: those of the Praying Mantis, the Golden Gardener, and the
scorpion of Languedoc. An analogous yet less brutal practice--for the
victim is defunct before he is eaten--is a characteristic of the Locust
family. The female of the white-faced Decticus will eagerly devour the
body of her dead mate, as will the Green Grasshopper.

To a certain extent this custom is excused by the nature of the insect's
diet; the Decticus and the Grasshopper are essentially carnivorous.
Encountering a dead body of their own species, a female will devour it,
even if it be the body of her latest mate.

But what are we to say in palliation of the vegetarians? At the approach
of the breeding season, before the eggs are laid, the Ephippigera turns
upon her still living mate, disembowels him, and eats as much of him as
her appetite will allow.

The cheerful Cricket shows herself in a new light at this season; she
attacks the mate who lately wooed her with such impassioned serenades;
she tears his wings, breaks his musical thighs, and even swallows a few
mouthfuls of the instrumentalist. It is probable that this deadly
aversion of the female for the male at the end of the mating season is
fairly common, especially among the carnivorous insects. But what is the
object of this atrocious custom? That is a question I shall not fail to
answer when circumstances permit.






The breeding of Crickets demands no particular preparations. A little
patience is enough--patience, which according to Buffon is genius; but
which I, more modestly, will call the superlative virtue of the
observer. In April, May, or later we may establish isolated couples in
ordinary flower-pots containing a layer of beaten earth. Their diet will
consist of a leaf of lettuce renewed from time to time. The pot must be
covered with a square of glass to prevent the escape of the inmates.

I have gathered some very curious data from these makeshift appliances,
which may be used with and as a substitute for the cages of wire gauze,
although the latter are preferable. We shall return to the point
presently. For the moment let us watch the process of breeding, taking
care that the critical hour does not escape us.

It was during the first week of June that my assiduous visits were at
last repaid. I surprised the female motionless, with the oviduct planted
vertically in the soil. Heedless of the indiscreet visitor, she remained
for a long time stationed at the same point. Finally she withdrew her
oviduct, and effaced, though without particular care, the traces of the
hole in which her eggs were deposited, rested for a moment, walked
away, and repeated the operation; not once, but many times, first here,
then there, all over the area at her disposal. Her behaviour was
precisely the same as that of the Decticus, except that her movements
were more deliberate. At the end of twenty-four hours her eggs were
apparently all laid. For greater certainty I waited a couple of days
longer.

I then examined the earth in the pot. The eggs, of a straw-yellow, are
cylindrical in form, with rounded ends, and measure about one-tenth of
an inch in length. They are placed singly in the soil, in a
perpendicular position.

I have found them over the whole area of the pot, at a depth of a
twelfth of an inch. As closely as the difficulties of the operation will
allow, I have estimated the eggs of a single female, upon passing the
earth through a sieve, at five or six hundred. Such a family will
certainly undergo an energetic pruning before very long.

The egg of the Cricket is a curiosity, a tiny mechanical marvel. After
hatching it appears as a sheath of opaque white, open at the summit,
where there is a round and very regular aperture, to the edge of which
adheres a little valve like a skull-cap which forms the lid. Instead of
breaking at random under the thrusts or the cuts of the new-formed
larva, it opens of itself along a line of least resistance which occurs
expressly for the purpose. The curious process of the actual hatching
should be observed.

A fortnight after the egg is laid two large eye-marks, round and of a
reddish black, are seen to darken the forward extremity of the egg.
Next, a little above these two points, and right at the end of the
cylinder, a tiny circular capsule or swelling is seen. This marks the
line of rupture, which is now preparing. Presently the translucency of
the egg allows us to observe the fine segmentation of the tiny inmate.
Now is the moment to redouble our vigilance and to multiply our visits,
especially during the earlier part of the day.

Fortune favours the patient, and rewards my assiduity Round the little
capsule changes of infinite delicacy have prepared the line of least
resistance. The end of the egg, pushed by the head of the inmate,
becomes detached, rises, and falls aside like the top of a tiny phial.
The Cricket issues like a Jack-in-the-box.

When the Cricket has departed the shell remains distended, smooth,
intact, of the purest white, with the circular lid hanging to the mouth
of the door of exit. The egg of the bird breaks clumsily under the blows
of a wart-like excrescence which is formed expressly upon the beak of
the unborn bird; the egg of the Cricket, of a far superior structure,
opens like an ivory casket. The pressure of the inmate's head is
sufficient to work the hinge.

The moment he is deprived of his white tunic, the young Cricket, pale
all over, almost white, begins to struggle against the overlying soil.
He strikes it with his mandibles; he sweeps it aside, kicking it
backwards and downwards; and being of a powdery quality, which offers no
particular resistance, he soon arrives at the surface, and henceforth
knows the joys of the sun, and the perils of intercourse with the
living; a tiny, feeble creature, little larger than a flea. His colour
deepens. In twenty-four hours he assumes a splendid ebony black which
rivals that of the adult insect. Of his original pallor he retains only
a white girdle which encircles the thorax and reminds one of the
leading-string of an infant.

Very much on the alert, he sounds his surroundings with his long
vibrating antennæ; he toddles and leaps along with a vigour which his
future obesity will no longer permit.

This is the age of stomach troubles. What are we to give him to eat? I
do not know. I offer him adult diet--the tender leaves of a lettuce. He
disdains to bite it; or perhaps his bites escape me, so tiny would they
be.

In a few days, what with my ten households, I see myself loaded with
family cares. What shall I do with my five or six thousand Crickets, an
attractive flock, to be sure, but one I cannot bring up in my ignorance
of the treatment required? I will give you liberty, gentle creatures! I
will confide you to the sovereign nurse and schoolmistress, Nature!

It is done. Here and there about my orchard, in the most favourable
localities, I loose my legions. What a concert I shall have before my
door next year if all goes well! But no! There will probably be silence,
for the terrible extermination will follow which corresponds with the
fertility of the mother. A few couples only may survive: that is the
most we can hope.

The first to come to the living feast and the most eager at the
slaughter are the little grey lizard and the ant. I am afraid this
latter, hateful filibuster that it is, will not leave me a single
Cricket in my garden. It falls upon the tiny Crickets, eviscerates them,
and devours them with frantic greed.

Satanic creature! And to think that we place it in the front rank of
the insect world! The books celebrate its virtues and never tire of its
praises; the naturalists hold it in high esteem and add to its
reputation daily; so true is it of animals, as of man, that of the
various means of living in history the most certain is to do harm to
others.

Every one knows the _Bousier_ (dung-beetle) and the Necrophorus, those
lively murderers; the gnat, the drinker of blood; the wasp, the
irascible bully with the poisoned dagger; and the ant, the maleficent
creature which in the villages of the South of France saps and imperils
the rafters and ceilings of a dwelling with the same energy it brings to
the eating of a fig. I need say no more; human history is full of
similar examples of the useful misunderstood and undervalued and the
calamitous glorified.

What with the ants and other exterminating forces, the massacre was so
great that the colonies of Crickets in my orchard, so numerous at the
outset, were so far decimated that I could not continue my observations,
but had to resort to the outside world for further information.

In August, among the detritus of decaying leaves, in little oases whose
turf is not burned by the sun, I find the young Cricket has already
grown to a considerable size; he is all black, like the adult, without a
vestige of the white cincture of the early days. He has no domicile. The
shelter of a dead leaf, the cover afforded by a flat stone is
sufficient; he is a nomad, and careless where he takes his repose.


Not until the end of October, when the first frosts are at hand, does
the work of burrowing commence. The operation is very simple, as far as
I can tell from what I have learned from the insect in captivity. The
burrow is never made at a bare or conspicuous point; it is always
commenced under the shelter of a faded leaf of lettuce, the remains of
the food provided. This takes the place of the curtain of grass so
necessary to preserve the mysterious privacy of the establishment.

The little miner scratches with his fore-claws, but also makes use of
the pincers of his mandibles in order to remove pieces of grit or gravel
of any size. I see him stamping with his powerful hinder limbs, which
are provided with a double row of spines; I see him raking and sweeping
backwards the excavated material, and spreading it out in an inclined
plane. This is his whole method.

At first the work goes forward merrily. The excavator disappears under
the easily excavated soil of his prison after two hours' labour. At
intervals he returns to the orifice, always tail first, and always
raking and sweeping. If fatigue overcomes him he rests on the threshold
of his burrow, his head projecting outwards, his antennæ gently
vibrating. Presently he re-enters his tunnel and sets to work again with
his pincers and rakes. Presently his periods of repose grow longer and
tire my patience.

The most important part of the work is now completed. Once the burrow
has attained a depth of a couple of inches, it forms a sufficient
shelter for the needs of the moment. The rest will be the work of time;
a labour resumed at will, for a short time daily. The burrow will be
made deeper and wider as the growth of the inmate and the inclemency of
the season demand. Even in winter, if the weather is mild, and the sun
smiles upon the threshold of his dwelling, one may sometimes surprise
the Cricket thrusting out small quantities of loosened earth, a sign of
enlargement and of further burrowing. In the midst of the joys of spring
the cares of the house still continue; it is constantly restored and
perfected until the death of the occupant.

April comes to an end, and the song of the Cricket commences. At first
we hear only timid and occasional solos; but very soon there is a
general symphony, when every scrap of turf has its performer. I am
inclined to place the Cricket at the head of the choristers of spring.
In the waste lands of Provence, when the thyme and the lavender are in
flower, the Cricket mingles his note with that of the crested lark,
which ascends like a lyrical firework, its throat swelling with music,
to its invisible station in the clouds, whence it pours its liquid arias
upon the plain below. From the ground the chorus of the Crickets
replies. It is monotonous and artless, yet how well it harmonises, in
its very simplicity, with the rustic gaiety of a world renewed! It is
the hosanna of the awakening, the alleluia of the germinating seed and
the sprouting blade. To which of the two performers should the palm be
given? I should award it to the Cricket; he triumphs by force of numbers
and his never-ceasing note. The lark hushes her song, that the blue-grey
fields of lavender, swinging their aromatic censers before the sun, may
hear the Cricket alone at his humble, solemn celebration.

But here the anatomist intervenes, roughly demanding of the Cricket:
"Show me your instrument, the source of your music!" Like all things of
real value, it is very simple; it is based on the same principle as that
of the locusts; there is the toothed fiddlestick and the vibrating
tympanum.

The right wing-cover overlaps the left and almost completely covers it,
except for the sudden fold which encases the insect's flank. This
arrangement is the reverse of that exhibited by the green grasshopper,
the Decticus, the Ephippigera, and their relations. The Cricket is
right-handed, the others left-handed. The two wing-covers have the same
structure. To know one is to know the other. Let us examine that on the
right hand.

It is almost flat on the back, but suddenly folds over at the side, the
turn being almost at right angles. This lateral fold encloses the flank
of the abdomen and is covered with fine oblique and parallel nervures.
The powerful nervures of the dorsal portion of the wing-cover are of the
deepest black, and their general effect is that of a complicated design,
not unlike a tangle of Arabic caligraphy.

Seen by transmitted light the wing-cover is of a very pale reddish
colour, excepting two large adjacent spaces, one of which, the larger
and anterior, is triangular in shape, while the other, the smaller and
posterior, is oval. Each space is surrounded by a strong nervure and
goffered by slight wrinkles or depressions. These two spaces represent
the mirror of the locust tribe; they constitute the sonorous area. The
substance of the wing-cover is finer here than elsewhere, and shows
traces of iridescent though somewhat smoky colour.

These are parts of an admirable instrument, greatly superior to that of
the Decticus. The five hundred prisms of the bow biting upon the ridges
of the wing-cover opposed to it set all four tympanums vibrating at
once; the lower pair by direct friction, the upper pair by the vibration
of the wing-cover itself. What a powerful sound results! The Decticus,
endowed with only one indifferent "mirror," can be heard only at a few
paces; the Cricket, the possessor of four vibratory areas, can be heard
at a hundred yards.

The Cricket rivals the Cigale in loudness, but his note has not the
displeasing, raucous quality of the latter. Better still: he has the
gift of expression, for he can sing loud or soft. The wing-covers, as we
have seen, are prolonged in a deep fold over each flank. These folds are
the dampers, which, as they are pressed downwards or slightly raised,
modify the intensity of the sound, and according to the extent of their
contact with the soft abdomen now muffle the song to a _mezza voce_ and
now let it sound _fortissimo_.

Peace reigns in the cage until the warlike instinct of the mating period
breaks out. These duels between rivals are frequent and lively, but not
very serious. The two rivals rise up against one another, biting at one
another's heads--these solid, fang-proof helmets--roll each other over,
pick themselves up, and separate. The vanquished Cricket scuttles off as
fast as he can; the victor insults him by a couple of triumphant and
boastful chirps; then, moderating his tone, he tacks and veers about the
desired one.

The lover proceeds to make himself smart. Hooking one of his antennæ
towards him with one of his free claws, he takes it between his
mandibles in order to curl it and moisten it with saliva. With his long
hind legs, spurred and laced with red, he stamps with impatience and
kicks out at nothing. Emotion renders him silent. His wing-covers are
nevertheless in rapid motion, but are no longer sounding, or at most
emit but an unrhythmical rubbing sound.

Presumptuous declaration! The female Cricket does not run to hide
herself in the folds of her lettuce leaves; but she lifts the curtain a
little, and looks out, and wishes to be seen:--

  _Et fugit ad salices, et se cupit ante videri._

She flies towards the brake, but hopes first to be perceived, said the
poet of the delightful eclogue, two thousand years ago. Sacred
provocations of lovers, are they not in all ages the same?






My house shelters no specimens of the domestic Cricket, the guest of
bakeries and rustic hearths. But although in my village the chinks under
the hearthstones are mute, the nights of summer are musical with a
singer little known in the North. The sunny hours of spring have their
singer, the Field-Cricket of which I have written; while in the summer,
during the stillness of the night, we hear the note of the Italian
Cricket, the _OEcanthus pellucens_, Scop. One diurnal and one
nocturnal, between them they share the kindly half of the year. When the
Field-Cricket ceases to sing it is not long before the other begins its
serenade.

The Italian Cricket has not the black costume and heavy shape
characteristic of the family. It is, on the contrary, a slender, weakly
creature; its colour very pale, indeed almost white, as is natural in
view of its nocturnal habits. In handling it one is afraid of crushing
it between the fingers. It lives an aerial existence; on shrubs and
bushes of all kinds, on tall herbage and grasses, and rarely descends to
the earth. Its song, the pleasant voice of the calm, hot evenings from
July to October, commences at sunset and continues for the greater part
of the night.

This song is familiar to all Provençals; for the least patch of thicket
or tuft of grasses has its group of instrumentalists. It resounds even
in the granaries, into which the insect strays, attracted thither by the
fodder. But no one, so mysterious are the manners of the pallid Cricket,
knows exactly what is the source of the serenade, which is often, though
quite erroneously, attributed to the common field-cricket, which at this
period is silent and as yet quite young.

The song consists of a _Gri-i-i, Gri-i-i_, a slow, gentle note, rendered
more expressive by a slight tremor. Hearing it, one divines the extreme
tenuity and the amplitude of the vibrating membranes. If the insect is
not in any way disturbed as it sits in the low foliage, the note does
not vary, but at the least noise the performer becomes a ventriloquist.
First of all you hear it there, close by, in front of you, and the next
moment you hear it over there, twenty yards away; the double note
decreased in volume by the distance.

You go forward. Nothing is there. The sound proceeds again from its
original point. But no--it is not there; it is to the left now--unless
it is to the right--or behind.... Complete confusion! It is impossible
to detect, by means of the ear, the direction from which the chirp
really comes. Much patience and many precautions will be required before
you can capture the insect by the light of the lantern. A few specimens
caught under these conditions and placed in a cage have taught me the
little I know concerning the musician who so perfectly deceives our
ears.

The wing-covers are both formed of a dry, broad membrane, diaphanous and
as fine as the white skin on the outside of an onion, which is capable
of vibrating over its whole area. Their shape is that of the segment of
a circle, cut away at the upper end. This segment is bent at a right
angle along a strong longitudinal nervure, and descends on the outer
side in a flap which encloses the insect's flank when in the attitude of
repose.

The right wing-cover overlaps the left. Its inner edge carries, on the
under side, near the base, a callosity from which five radiating
nervures proceed; two of them upwards and two downwards, while the fifth
runs approximately at right angles to these. This last nervure, which is
of a slightly reddish hue, is the fundamental element of the musical
device; it is, in short, the bow, the fiddlestick, as is proved by the
fine notches which run across it. The rest of the wing-cover shows a few
more nervures of less importance, which hold the membrane stretched
tight, but do not form part of the friction apparatus.

The left or lower wing-cover is of similar structure, with the
difference that the bow, the callosity, and the nervures occupy the
upper face. It will be found that the two bows--that is, the toothed or
indented nervures--cross one another obliquely.

When the note has its full volume, the wing-covers are well raised above
the body like a wide gauzy sail, only touching along the internal edges.
The two bows, the toothed nervures, engage obliquely one with the other,
and their mutual friction causes the sonorous vibration of the two
stretched membranes.



The sound can be modified accordingly as the strokes of each bow bear
upon the callosity, which is itself serrated or wrinkled, or on one of
the four smooth radiating nervures. Thus in part are explained the
illusions produced by a sound which seems to come first from one point,
then from another, when the timid insect is alarmed.

The production of loud or soft resounding or muffled notes, which gives
the illusion of distance, the principal element in the art of the
ventriloquist, has another and easily discovered source. To produce the
loud, open sounds the wing-covers are fully lifted; to produce the
muted, muffled notes they are lowered. When lowered their outer edges
press more or less lightly on the soft flanks of the insect, thus
diminishing the vibratory area and damping the sound.

The gentle touch of a finger-tip muffles the sharp, loud ringing of a
glass tumbler or "musical-glass" and changes it into a veiled,
indefinite sound which seems to come from a distance. The White Cricket
knows this secret of acoustics. It misleads those that seek it by
pressing the edge of its vibrating membranes to the soft flesh of its
abdomen. Our musical instruments have their dampers; that of the
_OEcanthus pellucens_ rivals and surpasses them in simplicity of means
and perfection of results.

The Field-Cricket and its relatives also vary the volume of their song
by raising or lowering the elytra so as to enclose the abdomen in a
varying degree, but none of them can obtain by this method results so
deceptive as those produced by the Italian Cricket.

To this illusion of distance, which is a source of perpetually renewed
surprise, evoked by the slightest sound of our footsteps, we must add
the purity of the sound, and its soft tremolo. I know of no insect voice
more gracious, more limpid, in the profound peace of the nights of
August. How many times, _per amica silentia lunæ_, have I lain upon the
ground, in the shelter of a clump of rosemary, to listen to the
delicious concert!

The nocturnal Cricket sings continually in the gardens. Each tuft of the
red-flowered cistus has its band of musicians, and each bush of fragrant
lavender. The shrubs and the terebinth-trees contain their orchestras.
With its clear, sweet voice, all this tiny world is questioning,
replying, from bush to bush, from tree to tree; or rather, indifferent
to the songs of others, each little being is singing his joys to himself
alone.

Above my head the constellation of Cygnus stretches its great cross
along the Milky Way; below, all around me, palpitates the insect
symphony. The atom telling of its joys makes me forget the spectacle of
the stars. We know nothing of these celestial eyes which gaze upon us,
cold and calm, with scintillations like the blinking of eyelids.

Science tells us of their distance, their speeds, their masses, their
volumes; it burdens us with stupendous numbers and stupefies us with
immensities; but it does not succeed in moving us. And why? Because it
lacks the great secret: the secret of life. What is there, up there?
What do these suns warm? Worlds analogous to ours, says reason; planets
on which life is evolving in an endless variety of forms. A superb
conception of the universe, but after all a pure conception, not based
upon patent facts and infallible testimony at the disposal of one and
all. The probable, even the extremely probable, is not the obvious, the
evident, which forces itself irresistibly and leaves no room for doubt.

But in your company, O my Crickets, I feel the thrill of life, the soul
of our native lump of earth; and for this reason, as I lean against the
hedge of rosemary, I bestow only an absent glance upon the constellation
of Cygnus, but give all my attention to your serenade. A little animated
slime, capable of pleasure and pain, surpasses in interest the universe
of dead matter.






The duties of paternity are seldom imposed on any but the higher
animals. They are most notable in the bird; and the furry peoples acquit
themselves honourably. Lower in the scale we find in the father a
general indifference as to the fate of the family. Very few insects form
exceptions to this rule. Although all are imbued with a mating instinct
that is almost frenzied, nearly all, when the passion of the moment is
appeased, terminate then and there their domestic relations, and
withdraw, indifferent to the brood, which has to look after itself as
best it may.

This paternal coldness, which would be odious in the higher walks of
animal life, where the weakness of the young demands prolonged
assistance, has in the insect world the excuse that the new-born young
are comparatively robust, and are able, without help, to fill their
mouths and stomachs, provided they find themselves in propitious
surroundings. All that the prosperity of the race demands of the
Pierides, or Cabbage Butterflies, is that they should deposit their eggs
on the leaves of the cabbage; what purpose would be served by the
instincts of a father? The botanical instinct of the mother needs no
assistance. At the period of laying the father would be in the way. Let
him pursue his flirtations elsewhere; the laying of eggs is a serious
business.

In the case of the majority of insects the process of education is
unknown, or summary in the extreme. The insect has only to select a
grazing-ground upon which its family will establish itself the moment it
is hatched; or a site which will allow the young to find their proper
sustenance for themselves. There is no need of a father in these various
cases. After mating, the discarded male, who is henceforth useless,
drags out a lingering existence of a few days, and finally perishes
without having given the slightest assistance in the work of installing
his offspring.

But matters are not everywhere so primitive as this. There are tribes in
which an inheritance is prepared for the family which will assure it
both of food and of shelter in advance. The Hymenoptera in particular
are past-masters in the provision of cellars, jars, and other utensils
in which the honey-paste destined for the young is stored; they are
perfect in the art of excavating storehouses of food for their grubs.

This stupendous labour of construction and provisioning, this labour
that absorbs the insect's whole life, is the work of the mother only,
who wears herself out at her task. The father, intoxicated with
sunlight, lies idle on the threshold of the workshop, watching the
heroic female at her work, and regards himself as excused from all
labour when he has plagued his neighbours a little.

Does he never perform useful work? Why does he not follow the example
of the swallows, each of whom brings a fair share of the straw and
mortar for the building of the nest and the midges for the young brood?
No, he does nothing; perhaps alleging the excuse of his relative
weakness. But this is a poor excuse; for to cut out little circles from
a leaf, to rake a little cotton from a downy plant, or to gather a
little mortar from a muddy spot, would hardly be a task beyond his
powers. He might very well collaborate, at least as labourer; he could
at least gather together the materials for the more intelligent mother
to place in position. The true motive of his idleness is ineptitude.

It is a curious thing that the Hymenoptera, the most skilful of all
industrial insects, know nothing of paternal labour. The male of the
genus, in whom we should expect the requirements of the young to develop
the highest aptitudes, is as useless as a butterfly, whose family costs
so little to establish. The actual distribution of instinct upsets our
most reasonable previsions.

It upsets our expectations so completely that we are surprised to find
in the dung-beetle the noble prerogative which is lacking in the bee
tribe. The mates of several species of dung-beetle keep house together
and know the worth of mutual labour. Consider the male and female
Geotrupes, which prepare together the patrimony of their larvæ; in their
case the father assists his companion with the pressure of his robust
body in the manufacture of their balls of compressed nutriment. These
domestic habits are astonishing amidst the general isolation.

To this example, hitherto unique, my continual researches in this
direction permit me to-day to add three others which are fully as
interesting. All three are members of the corporation of dung-beetles. I
will relate their habits, but briefly, as in many respects their history
is the same as that of the Sacred Scarabæus, the Spanish Copris, and
others.

The first example is the Sisyphus beetle (_Sisyphus Schæfferi_, Lin.),
the smallest and most industrious of our pill-makers. It has no equal in
lively agility, grotesque somersaults, and sudden tumbles down the
impossible paths or over the impracticable obstacles to which its
obstinacy is perpetually leading it. In allusion to these frantic
gymnastics Latreille has given the insect the name of Sisyphus, after
the celebrated inmate of the classic Hades. This unhappy spirit
underwent terrible exertions in his efforts to heave to the top of a
mountain an enormous rock, which always escaped him at the moment of
attaining the summit, and rolled back to the foot of the slope. Begin
again, poor Sisyphus, begin again, begin again always! Your torments
will never cease until the rock is firmly placed upon the summit of the
mountain.

I like this myth. It is, in a way, the history of many of us; not odious
scoundrels worthy of eternal torments, but worthy and laborious folk,
useful to their neighbours. One crime alone is theirs to expiate: the
crime of poverty. Half a century or more ago, for my own part, I left
many blood-stained tatters on the crags of the inhospitable mountain; I
sweated, strained every nerve, exhausted my veins, spent without
reckoning my reserves of energy, in order to carry upward and lodge in
a place of security that crushing burden, my daily bread; and hardly was
the load balanced but it once more slipped downwards, fell, and was
engulfed. Begin again, poor Sisyphus; begin again, until your burden,
falling for the last time, shall crush your head and set you free at
length.

The Sisyphus of the naturalists knows nothing of these tribulations.
Agile and lively, careless of slope or precipice, he trundles his load,
which is sometimes food for himself, sometimes for his offspring. He is
very rare hereabouts; I should never have succeeded in obtaining a
sufficient number of specimens for my purpose but for an assistant whom
I may opportunely present to the reader, for he will be mentioned again
in these recitals.

This is my son, little Paul, aged seven. An assiduous companion of the
chase, he knows better than any one of his age the secrets of the
Cigale, the Cricket, and especially of the dung-beetle, his great
delight. At a distance of twenty yards his clear sight distinguishes the
refuse-tip of a beetle's burrow from a chance lump of earth; his fine
ear will catch the chirping of a grasshopper inaudible to me. He lends
me his sight and hearing, and I in return make him free of my thoughts,
which he welcomes attentively, raising his wide blue eyes questioningly
to mine.

What an adorable thing is the first blossoming of the intellect! Best of
all ages is that when the candid curiosity awakens and commences to
acquire knowledge of every kind. Little Paul has his own insectorium, in
which the Scarabæus makes his balls; his garden, the size of a
handkerchief, in which he grows haricot beans, which are often dug up to
see if the little roots are growing longer; his plantation, containing
four oak-trees an inch in height, to which the acorns still adhere.
These serve as diversions after the arid study of grammar, which goes
forward none the worse on that account.

What beautiful and useful knowledge the teaching of natural history
might put into childish heads, if only science would consider the very
young; if our barracks of universities would only combine the lifeless
study of books with the living study of the fields; if only the red tape
of the curriculum, so dear to bureaucrats, would not strangle all
willing initiative. Little Paul and I will study as much as possible in
the open country, among the rosemary bushes and arbutus. There we shall
gain vigour of body and of mind; we shall find the true and the
beautiful better than in school-books.

To-day the blackboard has a rest; it is a holiday. We rise early, in
view of the intended expedition; so early that we must set out fasting.
But no matter; when we are hungry we shall rest in the shade, and you
will find in my knapsack the usual viaticum--apples and a crust of
bread. The month of May is near; the Sisyphus should have appeared. Now
we must explore at the foot of the mountain, the scanty pastures through
which the herds have passed; we must break with our fingers, one by one,
the cakes of sheep-dung dried by the sun, but still retaining a spot of
moisture in the centre. There we shall find Sisyphus, cowering and
waiting until the evening for fresher pasturage.

Possessed of this secret, which I learned from previous fortuitous
discoveries, little Paul immediately becomes a master in the art of
dislodging the beetle. He shows such zeal, has such an instinct for
likely hiding-places, that after a brief search I am rich beyond my
ambitions. Behold me the owner of six couples of Sisyphus beetles: an
unheard-of number, which I had never hoped to obtain.

For their maintenance a wire-gauze cover suffices, with a bed of sand
and diet to their taste. They are very small, scarcely larger than a
cherry-stone. Their shape is extremely curious. The body is dumpy,
tapering to an acorn-shaped posterior; the legs are very long,
resembling those of the spider when outspread; the hinder legs are
disproportionately long and curved, being thus excellently adapted to
enlace and press the little pilule of dung.

Mating takes place towards the beginning of May, on the surface of the
soil, among the remains of the sheep-dung on which the beetles have been
feeding. Soon the moment for establishing the family arrives. With equal
zeal the two partners take part in the kneading, transport, and baking
of the food for their offspring. With the file-like forelegs a morsel of
convenient size is shaped from the piece of dung placed in the cage.
Father and mother manipulate the piece together, striking it blows with
their claws, compressing it, and shaping it into a ball about the size
of a big pea.

As in the case of the _Scarabæus sacer_, the exact spherical form is
produced without the mechanical device of rolling the ball. Before it is
moved, even before it is cut loose from its point of support, the
fragment is modelled into the shape of a sphere. The beetle as geometer
is aware of the form best adapted to the long preservation of preserved
foods.

The ball is soon ready. It must now be forced to acquire, by means of a
vigorous rolling, the crust which will protect the interior from a too
rapid evaporation. The mother, recognisable by her slightly robuster
body, takes the place of honour in front. Her long hinder legs on the
soil, her forelegs on the ball, she drags it towards her as she walks
backwards. The father pushes behind, moving tail first, his head held
low. This is exactly the method of the Scarabæus beetles, which also
work in couples, though for another object. The Sisyphus beetles harness
themselves to provide an inheritance for their larvæ; the larger insects
are concerned in obtaining the material for a banquet which the two
chance-met partners will consume underground.

The couple set off, with no definite goal ahead, across the
irregularities of the soil, which cannot be avoided by a leader who
hauls backwards. But even if the Sisyphus saw the obstacles she would
not try to evade them: witness her obstinate endeavour to drag her load
up the wire gauze of her cage!

A hopeless undertaking! Fixing her hinder claws in the meshes of the
wire gauze the mother drags her burden towards her; then, enlacing it
with her legs, she holds it suspended. The father, finding no purchase
for his legs, clutches the ball, grows on to it, so to speak, thus
adding his weight to that of the burden, and awaits events. The effort
is too great to last. Ball and beetle fall together. The mother, from
above, gazes a moment in surprise, and suddenly lets herself fall, only
to re-embrace the ball and recommence her impracticable efforts to scale
the wall. After many tumbles the attempt is at last abandoned.

Even on level ground the task is not without its difficulties. At every
moment the load swerves on the summit of a pebble, a fragment of gravel;
the team are overturned, and lie on their backs, kicking their legs in
the air. This is a mere nothing. They pick themselves up and resume
their positions, always quick and lively. The accidents which so often
throw them on their backs seem to cause them no concern; one would even
think they were invited. The pilule has to be matured, given a proper
consistency. In these conditions falls, shocks, blows, and jolts might
well enter into the programme. This mad trundling lasts for hours and
hours.

Finally, the mother, considering that the matter has been brought to a
satisfactory conclusion, departs in search of a favourable place for
storage. The father, crouched upon the treasure, waits. If the absence
of his companion is prolonged he amuses himself by rapidly whirling the
pill between his hind legs, which are raised in the air. He juggles with
the precious burden; he tests its perfections between his curved legs,
calliper-wise. Seeing him frisking in this joyful occupation, who can
doubt that he experiences all the satisfactions of a father assured of
the future of his family? It is I, he seems to say, it is I who have
made this loaf, so beautifully round; it is I who have made the hard
crust to preserve the soft dough; it is I who have baked it for my sons!
And he raises on high, in the sight of all, this magnificent testimonial
of his labours.

But now the mother has chosen the site. A shallow pit is made, the mere
commencement of the projected burrow. The ball is pushed and pulled
until it is close at hand. The father, a vigilant watchman, still
retains his hold, while the mother digs with claws and head. Soon the
pit is deep enough to receive the ball; she cannot dispense with the
close contact of the sacred object; she must feel it bobbing behind her,
against her back, safe from all parasites and robbers, before she can
decide to burrow further. She fears what might happen to the precious
loaf if it were abandoned at the threshold of the burrow until the
completion of the dwelling. There is no lack of midges and tiny
dung-beetles--Aphodiinæ--which might take possession of it. It is only
prudent to be distrustful.

So the ball is introduced into the pit, half in and half out of the
mouth of the burrow. The mother, below, clasps and pulls; the father,
above, moderates the jolts and prevents it from rolling. All goes well.
Digging is resumed, and the descent continues, always with the same
prudence; one beetle dragging the load, the other regulating its descent
and clearing away all rubbish that might hinder the operation. A few
more efforts, and the ball disappears underground with the two miners.
What follows will be, for a time at least, only a repetition of what we
have seen. Let us wait half a day or so.

If our vigilance is not relaxed we shall see the father regain the
surface alone, and crouch in the sand near the mouth of the burrow.
Retained by duties in the performance of which her companion can be of
no assistance, the mother habitually delays her reappearance until the
following day. When she finally emerges the father wakes up, leaves his
hiding place, and rejoins her. The reunited couple return to their
pasturage, refresh themselves, and then cut out another ball of dung.
As before, both share the work; the hewing and shaping, the transport,
and the burial in ensilage.

This conjugal fidelity is delightful; but is it really the rule? I
should not dare to affirm that it is. There must be flighty individuals
who, in the confusion under a large cake of droppings, forget the fair
confectioners for whom they have worked as journeymen, and devote
themselves to the services of others, encountered by chance; there must
be temporary unions, and divorces after the burial of a single pellet.
No matter: the little I myself have seen gives me a high opinion of the
domestic morals of the Sisyphus.

Let us consider these domestic habits a little further before coming to
the contents of the burrow. The father works fully as hard as the mother
at the extraction and modelling of the pellet which is destined to be
the inheritance of a larva; he shares in the work of transport, even if
he plays a secondary part; he watches over the pellet when the mother is
absent, seeking for a suitable site for the excavation of the cellar; he
helps in the work of digging; he carries away the rubbish from the
burrow; finally, to crown all these qualities, he is in a great measure
faithful to his spouse.

The Scarabæus exhibits some of these characteristics. He also assists
his spouse in the preparation of pellets of dung; he also assists her to
transport the pellets, the pair facing each other and the female going
backwards. But as I have stated already, the motive of this mutual
service is selfish; the two partners labour only for their own good. The
feast is for themselves alone. In the labours that concern the family
the female Scarabæus receives no assistance. Alone she moulds her
sphere, extracts it from the lump and rolls it backwards, with her back
to her task, in the position adopted by the male Sisyphus; alone she
excavates her burrow, and alone she buries the fruit of her labour.
Oblivious of the gravid mother and the future brood, the male gives her
no assistance in her exhausting task. How different to the little
pellet-maker, the Sisyphus!

It is now time to visit the burrow. At no very great depth we find a
narrow chamber, just large enough for the mother to move around at her
work. Its very exiguity proves that the male cannot remain underground;
so soon as the chamber is ready he must retire in order to leave the
female room to move. We have, in fact, seen that he returns to the
surface long before the female.

The contents of the cellar consist of a single pellet, a masterpiece of
plastic art. It is a miniature reproduction of the pear-shaped ball of
the Scarabæus, a reproduction whose very smallness gives an added value
to the polish of the surface and the beauty of its curves. Its larger
diameter varies from half to three-quarters of an inch. It is the most
elegant product of the dung-beetle's art.

But this perfection is of brief duration. Very soon the little "pear"
becomes covered with gnarled excrescences, black and twisted, which
disfigure it like so many warts. Part of the surface, which is otherwise
intact, disappears under a shapeless mass. The origin of these knotted
excrescences completely deceived me at first. I suspected some
cryptogamic vegetation, some _Spheriæcæa_, for example, recognisable by
its black, knotted, incrusted growth. It was the larva that showed me my
mistake.

The larva is a maggot curved like a hook, carrying on its back an ample
pouch or hunch, forming part of its alimentary canal. The reserve of
excreta in this hunch enables it to seal accidental perforations of the
shell of its lodging with an instantaneous jet of mortar. These sudden
emissions, like little worm-casts, are also practised by the Scarabæus,
but the latter rarely makes use of them.

The larvæ of the various dung-beetles utilise their alimentary residues
in rough-casting their houses, which by their dimensions lend themselves
to this method of disposal, while evading the necessity of opening
temporary windows by which the ordure can be expelled. Whether for lack
of sufficient room, or for other reasons which escape me, the larva of
the Sisyphus, having employed a certain amount in the smoothing of the
interior, ejects the rest of its digestive products from its dwelling.

Let us examine one of these "pears" when the inmate is already partly
grown. Sooner or later we shall see a spot of moisture appear at some
point on the surface; the wall softens, becomes thinner, and then,
through the softened shell, a jet of dark green excreta rises and falls
back upon itself in corkscrew convolutions. One excrescence the more has
been formed; as it dries it becomes black.

What has occurred? The larva has opened a temporary breach in the wall
of its shell; and through this orifice, in which a slight thickness of
the outer glaze still remains, it has expelled the excess of mortar
which it could not employ within. This practice of forming oubliettes in
the shell of its prison does not endanger the grub, as they are
immediately closed, and hermetically sealed by the base of the jet,
which is compressed as by a stroke of a trowel. The stopper is so
quickly put in place that the contents remain moist in spite of the
frequent breaches made in the shell of the "pear." There is no danger of
an influx of the dry outer air.

The Sisyphus seems to be aware of the peril which later on, in the
dog-days, will threaten its "pear," small as it is, and so near the
surface of the ground. It is extremely precocious. It labours in April
and May when the air is mild. In the first fortnight of July, before the
terrible dog-days have arrived, the members of its family break their
shells and set forth in search of the heap of droppings which will
furnish them with food and lodging during the fierce days of summer.
Then come the short but pleasant days of autumn, the retreat underground
and the winter torpor, the awakening of spring, and finally the cycle is
closed by the festival of pellet-making.

One word more as to the fertility of the Sisyphus. My six couples under
the wire-gauze cover furnished me with fifty-seven inhabited pellets.
This gives an average of more than nine to each couple; a figure which
the _Scarabæus sacer_ is far from attaining. To what should we attribute
this superior fertility? I can only see one cause: the fact that the
male works as valiantly as the female. Family cares too great for the
strength of one are not too heavy when there are two to support them.






To encounter among the Hymenoptera, those ardent lovers of flowers, a
species which goes a-hunting on its own account is, to say the least of
it, astonishing. That the larder of the larvæ should be provisioned with
captured prey is natural enough; but that the provider, whose diet is
honey, should itself devour its captives is a fact both unexpected and
difficult to comprehend. We are surprised that a drinker of nectar
should become a drinker of blood. But our surprise abates if we consider
the matter closely. The double diet is more apparent than real; the
stomach which fills itself with the nectar of flowers does not gorge
itself with flesh. When she perforates the rump of her victim the
Odynerus does not touch the flesh, which is a diet absolutely contrary
to her tastes; she confines herself to drinking the defensive liquid
which the grub distils at the end of its intestine. For her this liquid
is doubtless a beverage of delicious flavour, with which she relieves
from time to time her staple diet of the honey distilled by flowers,
some highly spiced condiment, appetiser or aperient, or perhaps--who
knows?--a substitute for honey. Although the qualities of the liquid
escape me, I see at least that Odynerus cares nothing for the rest.
Once the pouch is emptied the larva is abandoned as useless offal, a
certain sign of non-carnivorous appetites. Under these conditions the
persecutor of Chrysomela can no longer be regarded as guilty of an
unnatural double dietary.

We may even wonder whether other species also are not apt to draw some
direct profit from the hunting imposed upon them by the needs of the
family. The procedure of Odynerus in opening the anal pouch is so far
removed from the usual that we should not anticipate many imitators; it
is a secondary detail, and impracticable with game of a different kind.
But there may well be a certain amount of variety in the means of direct
utilisation. Why, for example, when the victim which has just been
paralysed or rendered insensible by stinging contains in the stomach a
delicious meal, semi-liquid or liquid in consistency, should the hunter
scruple to rob the half-living body and force it to disgorge without
injuring the quality of its flesh? There may well be robbers of the
moribund, attracted not by their flesh but by the appetising contents of
their stomachs.

As a matter of fact there are such, and they are numerous. In the first
rank we may cite that hunter of the domestic bee, _Philanthus aviporus_
(Latreille). For a long time I suspected Philanthus of committing such
acts of brigandage for her own benefit, having many times surprised her
gluttonously licking the honey-smeared mouth of the bee; I suspected
that her hunting of the bee was not undertaken entirely for the benefit
of her larvæ. The suspicion was worth experimental confirmation. At the
time I was interested in another question also: I wanted to study,
absolutely at leisure, the methods by which the various predatory
species dealt with their victims. In the case of Philanthus I made use
of the improvised cage already described; and Philanthus it was who
furnished me with my first data on the subject. She responded to my
hopes with such energy that I thought myself in possession of an
unequalled method of observation, by means of which I could witness
again and again, to satiety even, incidents of a kind so difficult to
surprise in a state of nature. Alas! the early days of my acquaintance
with Philanthus promised me more than the future had in store for me!
Not to anticipate, however, let us place under the bell-glass the hunter
and the game. I recommend the experiment to whomsoever would witness the
perfection with which the predatory Hymenoptera use their stings. The
result is not in doubt and the waiting is short; the moment the prey is
perceived in an attitude favourable to her designs, the bandit rushes at
it, and all is over. In detail, the tragedy develops as follows:

I place under a bell-glass a Philanthus and two or three domestic bees.
The prisoners climb the glass walls, on the more strongly lighted side;
they ascend, descend, and seek to escape; the polished, vertical surface
is for them quite easy to walk upon. They presently quiet down, and the
brigand begins to notice her surroundings. The antennæ point forward,
seeking information; the hinder legs are drawn up with a slight
trembling, as of greed and rapacity, in the thighs; the head turns to
the right and the left, and follows the evolutions of the bees against
the glass. The posture of the scoundrelly insect is strikingly
expressive; one reads in it the brutal desires of a creature in ambush,
the cunning patience that postpones attack. The choice is made, and
Philanthus throws herself upon her victim.

Turn by turn tumbled and tumbling, the two insects roll over and over.
But the struggle soon quiets down, and the assassin commences to plunder
her prize. I have seen her adopt two methods. In the first, more usual
than the other, the bee is lying on the ground, upon its back, and
Philanthus, mouth to mouth and abdomen to abdomen, clasps it with her
six legs, while she seizes its neck in her mandibles. The abdomen is
then curved forward and gropes for a moment for the desired spot in the
upper part of the thorax, which it finally reaches. The sting plunges
into the victim, remains in the wound for a moment, and all is over.
Without loosing the victim, which is still tightly clasped, the murderer
restores her abdomen to the normal position and holds it pressed against
that of the bee.

By the second method Philanthus operates standing upright. Resting on
the hinder feet and the extremity of the folded wings, she rises proudly
to a vertical position, holding the bee facing her by her four anterior
claws. In order to get the bee into the proper position for the final
stroke, she swings the poor creature round and back again with the
careless roughness of a child dandling a doll. Her pose is magnificent,
solidly based upon her sustaining tripod, the two posterior thighs and
the end of the wings, she flexes the abdomen forwards and upwards, and,
as before, stings the bee in the upper part of the thorax. The
originality of her pose at the moment of striking surpasses anything I
have ever witnessed.

The love of knowledge in matters of natural history is not without its
cruelties. To make absolutely certain of the point attained by the
sting, and to inform myself completely concerning this horrible talent
for murder, I have provoked I dare not confess how many assassinations
in captivity. Without a single exception, the bee has always been stung
in the throat. In the preparations for the final blow the extremity of
the abdomen may of course touch here and there, at different points of
the thorax or abdomen, but it never remains there, nor is the sting
unsheathed, as may easily be seen. Once the struggle has commenced the
Philanthus is so absorbed in her operations that I can remove the glass
cover and follow every detail of the drama with my magnifying-glass.

The invariable situation of the wound being proved, I bend back the head
of the bee, so as to open the articulation. I see under what we may call
the chin of the bee a white spot, hardly a twenty-fifth of an inch
square, where the horny integuments are lacking, and the fine skin is
exposed uncovered. It is there, always there, in that tiny defect in the
bee's armour, that the sting is inserted. Why is this point attacked
rather than another? Is it the only point that is vulnerable? Stretch
open the articulation of the corselet to the rear of the first pair of
legs. There you will see an area of defenceless skin, fully as delicate
as that of the throat, but much more extensive. The horny armour of the
bee has no larger breach. If the Philanthus were guided solely by
considerations of vulnerability she would certainly strike there,
instead of insistently seeking the narrow breach in the throat. The
sting would not grope or hesitate, it would find its mark at the first
attempt. No; the poisoned thrust is not conditioned by mechanical
considerations; the murderer disdains the wide breach in the corselet
and prefers the lesser one beneath the chin, for purely logical reasons
which we will now attempt to elicit.

The moment the bee is stung I release it from the aggressor. I am struck
in the first place by the sudden inertia of the antennæ and the various
members of the mouth; organs which continue to move for so long a time
in the victims of most predatory creatures. I see none of the
indications with which my previous studies of paralysed victims have
made me familiar: the antennæ slowly waving, the mandibles opening and
closing, the palpæ trembling for days, for weeks, even for months. The
thighs tremble for a minute or two at most; and the struggle is over.
Henceforth there is complete immobility. The significance of this sudden
inertia is forced upon me: the Philanthus has stabbed the cervical
ganglions. Hence the sudden immobility of all the organs of the head:
hence the real, not the apparent death of the bee. The Philanthus does
not paralyse merely, but kills.

This is one step gained. The murderer chooses the point below the chin
as the point of attack, in order to reach the principal centres of
innervation, the cephalic ganglions, and thus to abolish life at a
single blow. The vital centres being poisoned, immediate death must
follow. If the object of the Philanthus were merely to cause paralysis
she would plunge her sting into the defective corselet, as does the
Cerceris in attacking the weevil, whose armour is quite unlike the
bee's. Her aim is to kill outright, as we shall presently see; she wants
a corpse, not a paralytic. We must admit that her technique is
admirable; our human murderers could do no better.

Her posture of attack, which is very different to that of the
paralysers, is infallibly fatal to the victim. Whether she delivers the
attack in the erect position or prone, she holds the bee before her,
head to head and thorax to thorax. In this position it suffices to flex
the abdomen in order to reach the joint of the neck, and to plunge the
sting obliquely upwards into the head of the captive. If the bee were
seized in the inverse position, or if the sting were to go slightly
astray, the results would be totally different; the sting, penetrating
the bee in a downward direction, would poison the first thoracic
ganglion and provoke a partial paralysis only. What art, to destroy a
miserable bee! In what fencing-school did the slayer learn that terrible
upward thrust beneath the chin? And as she has learned it, how is it
that her victim, so learned in matters of architecture, so conversant
with the politics of Socialism, has so far learned nothing in her own
defence? As vigorous as the aggressor, she also carries a rapier, which
is even more formidable and more painful in its results--at all events,
when my finger is the victim! For centuries and centuries Philanthus has
stored her cellars with the corpses of bees, yet the innocent victim
submits, and the annual decimation of her race has not taught her how to
deliver herself from the scourge by a well-directed thrust. I am afraid
I shall never succeed in understanding how it is that the assailant has
acquired her genius for sudden murder while the assailed, better armed
and no less powerful, uses her dagger at random, and so far without
effect. If the one has learned something from the prolonged exercise of
the attack, then the other should also have learned something from the
prolonged exercise of defence, for attack and defence are of equal
significance in the struggle for life. Among the theorists of our day,
is there any so far-sighted as to be able to solve this enigma?

I will take this opportunity of presenting a second point which
embarrasses me; it is the carelessness--it is worse than that--the
imbecility of the bee in the presence of the Philanthus. One would
naturally suppose that the persecuted insect, gradually instructed by
family misfortune, would exhibit anxiety at the approach of the
ravisher, and would at least try to escape. But in my bell-glasses or
wire-gauze cages I see nothing of the kind. Once the first excitement
due to imprisonment has passed the bee takes next to no notice of its
terrible neighbour. I have seen it side by side with Philanthus on the
same flower; assassin and future victim were drinking from the same
goblet. I have seen it stupidly coming to inquire what the stranger
might be, as the latter crouched watching on the floor. When the
murderer springs it is usually upon some bee which passes before her,
and throws itself, so to speak, into her clutches; either thoughtlessly
or out of curiosity. There is no frantic terror, no sign of anxiety, no
tendency to escape. How is it that the experience of centuries, which is
said to teach so much to the lower creatures, has not taught the bee
even the beginning of apine wisdom: a deep-rooted horror of the
Philanthus? Does the bee count upon its sting? But the unhappy creature
is no fencer; it thrusts without method, at random. Nevertheless, let us
watch it at the final and fatal moment.

When the ravisher brings her sting into play the bee also uses its
sting, and with fury. I see the point thrusting now in this direction,
now in that; but in empty air, or grazing and slipping over the
convexity of the murderer's back, which is violently flexed. These blows
have no serious results. In the position assumed by the two as they
struggle the abdomen of the Philanthus is inside and that of the bee
outside; thus the sting of the latter has under its point only the
dorsal face of the enemy, which is convex and slippery, and almost
invulnerable, so well is it armoured. There is no breach there by which
the sting might possibly enter; and the operation takes place with the
certainty of a skilful surgeon using the lancet, despite the indignant
protests of the patient.

The fatal stroke once delivered, the murderer remains for some time on
the body of the victim, clasping it face to face, for reasons that we
must now consider. It may be that the position is perilous for
Philanthus. The posture of attack and self-protection is abandoned, and
the ventral area, more vulnerable than the back, is exposed to the sting
of the bee. Now the dead bee retains for some minutes the reflex use of
the sting, as I know to my cost: for removing the bee too soon from the
aggressor, and handling it carelessly, I have received a most effectual
sting. In her long embrace of the poisoned bee, how does Philanthus
avoid this sting, which does not willingly give up its life without
vengeance? Are there not sometimes unexpected accidents? Perhaps.

Here is a fact which encourages me in this belief. I had placed under
the bell-glass at the same time four bees and as many Eristales, in
order to judge of the entomological knowledge of Philanthus as
exemplified in the distinction of species. Reciprocal quarrels broke out
among the heterogeneous group. Suddenly, in the midst of the tumult,
the killer is killed. Who has struck the blow? Certainly not the
turbulent but pacific Eristales; it was one of the bees, which by chance
had thrust truly in the mellay. When and how? I do not know. This
accident is unique in my experience; but it throws a light upon the
question. The bee is capable of withstanding its adversary; it can, with
a thrust of its envenomed needle, kill the would-be killer. That it does
not defend itself more skilfully when it falls into the hands of its
enemy is due to ignorance of fencing, not to the weakness of the arm.
And here again arises, more insistently than before, the question I
asked but now: how is it that the Philanthus has learned for purposes of
attack what the bee has not learned for purposes of defence. To this
difficulty I see only one reply: the one knows without having learned
and the other does not know, being incapable of learning.

Let us now examine the motives which induce the Philanthus to kill its
bee instead of paralysing it. The murder once committed, it does not
release its victim for a moment, but holding it tightly clasped with its
six legs pressed against its body, it commences to ravage the corpse. I
see it with the utmost brutality rooting with its mandibles in the
articulation of the neck, and often also in the more ample articulation
of the corselet, behind the first pair of legs; perfectly aware of the
fine membrane in that part, although it does not take advantage of the
fact when employing its sting, although this vulnerable point is the
more accessible of the two breaches in the bee's armour. I see it
squeezing the bee's stomach, compressing it with its own abdomen,
crushing it as in a vice. The brutality of this manipulation is
striking; it shows that there is no more need of care and skill. The
bee is a corpse, and a little extra pushing and squeezing will not
deteriorate its quality as food, provided there is no effusion of blood;
and however rough the treatment, I have never been able to discover the
slightest wound.

These various manipulations, above all the compression of the throat,
lead to the desired result: the honey in the stomach of the bee ascends
to the mouth. I see the drops of honey welling out, lapped up by the
glutton as soon as they appear. The bandit greedily takes in its mouth
the extended and sugared tongue of the dead insect; then once more it
presses the neck and the thorax, and once more applies the pressure of
its abdomen to the honey-sac of the bee. The honey oozes forth and is
instantly licked up. This odious meal at the expense of the corpse is
taken in a truly sybaritic attitude: the Philanthus lies upon its side
with the bee between its legs. This atrocious meal lasts often half an
hour and longer. Finally the exhausted corpse is abandoned; regretfully,
it seems, for from time to time I have seen the ogre return to the feast
and repeat its manipulation of the body. After taking a turn round the
top of the bell-glass the robber of the dead returns to the victim,
squeezes it once more, and licks its mouth until the last trace of honey
has disappeared.

The frantic passion of the Philanthus for the honey of the bee is
betrayed in another fashion. When the first victim has been exhausted I
have introduced a second bee, which has been promptly stabbed under the
chin and squeezed as before in order to extract its honey. A third has
suffered the same fate without appeasing the bandit. I have offered a
fourth, a fifth; all are accepted. My notes record that a Philanthus
sacrificed six bees in succession before my eyes, and emptied them all
of honey in the approved manner. The killing came to an end not because
the glutton was satiated, but because my functions as provider were
becoming troublesome; the dry month of August leaves but few insects in
the flowerless garden. Six bees emptied of their honey--what a
gluttonous meal! Yet the famishing creature would doubtless have
welcomed a copious addition thereto had I had the means of furnishing
it!

We need not regret the failure of bees upon this occasion; for what I
have already written is sufficient testimony of the singular habits of
this murderer of bees. I am far from denying that the Philanthus has
honest methods of earning its living; I see it among the flowers, no
less assiduous than the rest of the Hymenoptera, peacefully drinking
from their cups of nectar. The male, indeed, being stingless, knows no
other means of supporting himself. The mothers, without neglecting the
flowers as a general thing, live by brigandage as well. It is said of
the Labba, that pirate of the seas, that it pounces upon sea-birds as
they rise from the waves with captured fish in their beaks. With a blow
of the beak delivered in the hollow of the stomach, the aggressor forces
the victim to drop its prey, and promptly catches it as it falls. The
victim at least escapes with nothing worse than a blow at the base of
the neck. The Philanthus, less scrupulous, falls upon the bee, stabs it
to death and makes it disgorge in order to nourish herself upon its
honey.

Nourish, I say, and I do not withdraw the expression. To support my
statement I have better reasons than those already presented. In the
cages in which various predatory Hymenoptera whose warlike habits I am
studying are confined, waiting until I have procured the desired
prey--not always an easy proceeding--I have planted a few heads of
flowers and a couple of thistle-heads sprinkled with drops of honey,
renewed at need. On these my captives feed. In the case of the
Philanthus the honeyed flowers, although welcomed, are not
indispensable. It is enough if from time to time I place in the cage a
few living bees. Half a dozen a day is about the proper allowance. With
no other diet than the honey extracted from their victims I keep my
specimens of Philanthus for a fortnight and three weeks.

So much is plain: in a state of freedom, when occasion offers, the
Philanthus must kill on her own account as she does in captivity. The
Odynerus asks nothing of the Chrysomela but a simple condiment, the
aromatic juice of the anal pouch; the Philanthus demands a full diet, or
at least a notable supplement thereto, in the form of the contents of
the stomach. What a hecatomb of bees must not a colony of these pirates
sacrifice for their personal consumption, to say nothing of their stores
of provisions! I recommend the Philanthus to the vengeance of apiarists.

For the moment we will not look further into the original causes of the
crime. Let us consider matters as we know them, with all their real or
apparent atrocity. In order to nourish herself the Philanthus levies
tribute upon the crop of the bee. This being granted, let us consider
the method of the aggressor more closely. She does not paralyse its
captives according to the customary rites of the predatory insects; she
kills them. Why? To the eyes of understanding the necessity of a sudden
death is as clear as day. Without eviscerating the bee, which would
result in the deterioration of its flesh considered as food for the
larvæ; without having recourse to the bloody extirpation of the stomach,
the Philanthus intends to obtain its honey. By skilful manipulation, by
cunning massage, she must somehow make the bee disgorge. Suppose the bee
stung in the rear of the corselet and paralysed. It is deprived of
locomotion, but not of vitality. The digestive apparatus, in particular,
retains in full, or at least in part, its normal energies, as is proved
by the frequent dejections of paralysed victims so long as the intestine
is not emptied; a fact notably exemplified by the victims of the Sphex
family; helpless creatures which I have before now kept alive for forty
days with the aid of a little sugared water. Well! without therapeutic
means, without emetics or stomach-pumps, how is a stomach intact and in
good order to be persuaded to yield up its contents? That of the bee,
jealous of its treasure, will lend itself to such treatment less readily
than another. Paralysed, the creature is inert; but there are always
internal energies and organic resistances which will not yield to the
pressure of the manipulator. In vain would the Philanthus gnaw at the
throat and squeeze the flanks; the honey would not return to the mouth
as long as a trace of life kept the stomach closed.

Matters are different with a corpse. The springs relax; the muscles
yield; the resistance of the stomach ceases, and the vessels containing
the honey are emptied by the pressure of the thief. We see, therefore,
that the Philanthus is obliged to inflict a sudden death which
instantly destroys the contractile power of the organs. Where shall the
deadly blow be delivered? The slayer knows better than we, when she
pierces the victim beneath the chin. Through the narrow breach in the
throat the cerebral ganglions are reached and immediate death ensues.

The examination of these acts of brigandage is not sufficient in view of
my incorrigible habit of following every reply by another query, until
the granite wall of the unknowable rises before me. Although the
Philanthus is skilled in forcing the bee to disgorge, in emptying the
crop distended with honey, this diabolical skill cannot be merely an
alimentary resource, above all when in common with other insects she has
access to the refectory of the flowers. I cannot regard her talents as
inspired solely by the desire of a meal obtained by the labour of
emptying the stomach of another insect. Something must surely escape us
here: the real reason for emptying the stomach. Perhaps a respectable
reason is concealed by the horrors I have recorded. What is it?

Every one will understand the vagueness which fills the observer's mind
in respect of such a question as this. The reader has the right to be
doubtful. I will spare him my suspicions, my gropings for the truth, and
the checks encountered in the search, and give him the results of my
long inquiry. Everything has its appropriate and harmonious reason. I am
too fully persuaded of this to believe that the Philanthus commits her
profanation of corpses merely to satisfy her appetite. What does the
empty stomach mean? May it not--Yes!--But, after all, who knows? Well,
let us follow up the scent.

The first care of the mothers is the welfare of the family. So far all
we know of the Philanthus concerns her talent for murder. Let us
consider her as a mother. We have seen her hunt on her own account; let
us now watch her hunt for her offspring, for the race. Nothing is
simpler than to distinguish between the two kinds of hunting. When the
insect wants a few good mouthfuls of honey and nothing else, she
abandons the bee contemptuously when she has emptied its stomach. It is
so much valueless waste, which will shrivel where it lies and be
dissected by ants. If, on the other hand, she intends to place it in the
larder as a provision for her larvæ, she clasps it with her two
intermediate legs, and, walking on the other four, drags it to and fro
along the edge of the bell-glass in search of an exit so that she may
fly off with her prey. Having recognised the circular wall as
impassable, she climbs its sides, now holding the bee in her mandibles
by the antennæ, clinging as she climbs to the vertical polished surface
with all six feet. She gains the summit of the glass, stays for a little
while in the flask-like cavity of the terminal button or handle, returns
to the ground, and resumes her circuit of the glass and her climbing,
relinquishing the bee only after an obstinate attempt to escape with it.
The persistence with which the Philanthus retains her clasp upon the
encumbering burden shows plainly that the game would go straight to the
larder were the insect at liberty.

Those bees intended for the larvæ are stung under the chin like the
others; they are true corpses; they are manipulated, squeezed, exhausted
of their honey, just as the others. There is no difference in the method
of capture nor in their after-treatment.

As captivity might possibly result in a few anomalies of action, I
decided to inquire how matters went forward in the open. In the
neighbourhood of some colonies of Philanthidæ I lay in wait, watching
for perhaps a longer time than the question justified, as it was already
settled by what occurred in captivity. My scrupulous watching at various
times was rewarded. The majority of the hunters immediately entered
their nests, carrying the bees pressed against their bodies; some halted
on the neighbouring undergrowth; and these I saw treating the bee in the
usual manner, and lapping the honey from its mouth. After these
preparations the corpse was placed in the larder. All doubt was thus
destroyed: the bees provided for the larvæ are previously carefully
emptied of their honey.

Since we are dealing with the subject, let us take the opportunity of
inquiring into the customs of the Philanthus in a state of freedom.
Making use of her victims when absolutely lifeless, so that they would
putrefy in the course of a few days, this hunter of bees cannot adopt
the customs of certain insects which paralyse their prey, and fill their
cellars before laying an egg. She must surely be obliged to follow the
method of the Bembex, whose larva receives, at intervals, the necessary
nourishment; the amount increasing as the larva grows. The facts confirm
this deduction. I spoke just now of the tediousness of my watching when
watching the colonies of the Philanthus. It was perhaps even more
tedious than when I was keeping an eye upon the Bembex. Before the
burrows of _Cerceris tuberculus_ and other devourers of the weevil, and
before that of the yellow-winged Sphex, the slayer of crickets, there
is plenty of distraction, owing to the busy movements of the community.
The mothers have scarcely entered the nest before they are off again,
returning quickly with fresh prey, only to set out once more. The going
and coming is almost continuous until the storehouse is full.

The burrows of the Philanthus know nothing of such animation, even in a
populous colony. In vain my vigils prolonged themselves into whole
mornings or afternoons, and only very rarely does the mother who has
entered with a bee set forth upon a second expedition. Two captures by
the same huntress is the most that I have seen in my long watches. Once
the family is provided with sufficient food for the moment the mother
postpones further hunting trips until hunting becomes necessary, and
busies herself with digging and burrowing in her underground dwelling.
Little cells are excavated, and I see the rubbish from them gradually
pushed up to the surface. With that exception there is no sign of
activity; it is as though the burrow were deserted.

To lay the nest bare is not easy. The burrow penetrates to a depth of
about three feet in a compact soil; sometimes in a vertical, sometimes
in a horizontal direction. The spade and pick, wielded by hands more
vigorous but less expert than my own, are indispensable; but the conduct
of the excavation is anything but satisfactory. At the extremity of the
long gallery--it seems as though the straw I use for sounding would
never reach the end--we finally discover the cells, egg-shaped cavities
with the longer axis horizontal. Their number and their mutual
disposition escape me.

Some already contain the cocoon--slender and translucid, like that of
the Cerceris, and, like it, recalling the shape of certain
homoeopathic phials, with oval bodies surmounted by a tapering neck.
By the extremity of the neck, which is blackened and hardened by the
dejecta of the larvæ, the cocoon is fixed to the end of the cell without
any other support. It reminds one of a short club, planted by the end of
the handle, in a line with the horizontal axis of the cell. Other cells
contain the larva in a stage more or less advanced. The grub is eating
the last victim proffered; around it lie the remains of food already
consumed. Others, again, show me a bee, a single bee, still intact, and
having an egg deposited on the under-side of the thorax. This bee
represents the first instalment of rations; others will follow as the
grub matures. My expectations are thus confirmed; as with Bembex, slayer
of Diptera, so Philanthus, killer of bees, lays her egg upon the first
body stored, and completes, at intervals, the provisioning of the cells.

The problem of the dead bee is elucidated; there remains the other
problem, of incomparable interest--Why, before they are given over to
the larvæ, are the bees robbed of their honey? I have said, and I
repeat, that the killing and emptying of the bee cannot be explained
solely by the gluttony of the Philanthus. To rob the worker of its booty
is nothing; such things are seen every day; but to slaughter it in order
to empty its stomach--no, gluttony cannot be the only motive. And as the
bees placed in the cells are squeezed dry no less than the others, the
idea occurs to me that as a beefsteak garnished with _confitures_ is not
to every one's taste, so the bee sweetened with honey may well be
distasteful or even harmful to the larvæ of the Philanthus. What would
the grub do if, replete with blood and flesh, it were to find under its
mandibles the honey-bag of the bee?--if, gnawing at random, it were to
open the bees stomach and so drench its game with syrup? Would it
approve of the mixture? Would the little ogre pass without repugnance
from the gamey flavour of a corpse to the scent of flowers? To affirm or
deny is useless. We must see. Let us see.

I take the young larvæ of the Philanthus, already well matured, but
instead of serving them with the provisions buried in their cells I
offer them game of my own catching--bees that have filled themselves
with nectar among the rosemary bushes. My bees, killed by crushing the
head, are thankfully accepted, and at first I see nothing to justify my
suspicions. Then my nurslings languish, show themselves disdainful of
their food, give a negligent bite here and there, and finally, one and
all, die beside their uncompleted meal. All my attempts miscarry; not
once do I succeed in rearing my larvæ as far as the stage of spinning
the cocoon. Yet I am no novice in my duties as dry-nurse. How many
pupils have passed through my hands and have reached the final stage in
my old sardine-boxes as well as in their native burrows! I shall draw no
conclusions from this check, which my scruples may attribute to some
unknown cause. Perhaps the atmosphere of my cabinet and the dryness of
the sand serving them for a bed have been too much for my nurslings,
whose tender skins are used to the warm moisture of the subsoil. Let us
try another method.

To decide positively whether honey is or is not repugnant to the grubs
of the Philanthus was hardly practicable by the method just explained.
The first meals consisted of flesh, and after that nothing in
particular occurred. The honey is encountered later, when the bee is
largely consumed. If hesitation and repugnance were manifested at this
point they came too late to be conclusive; the sickness of the larvæ
might be due to other causes, known or unknown. We must offer honey at
the very beginning, before artificial rearing has spoilt the grub's
appetite. To offer pure honey would, of course, be useless; no
carnivorous creature would touch it, even were it starving. I must
spread the honey on meat; that is, I must smear the dead bee with honey,
lightly varnishing it with a camel's-hair brush.

Under these conditions the problem is solved with the first few
mouthfuls. The grub, having bitten on the honeyed bee, draws back as
though disgusted; hesitates for a long time; then, urged by hunger,
begins again; tries first on one side, then on another; in the end it
refuses to touch the bee again. For a few days it pines upon its
rations, which are almost intact, then dies. As many as are subjected to
the same treatment perish in the same way.

Do they simply die of hunger in the presence of food which their
appetites reject, or are they poisoned by the small amount of honey
absorbed at the first bites? I cannot say; but, whether poisonous or
merely repugnant, the bee smeared with honey is always fatal to them; a
fact which explains more clearly than the unfavourable circumstances of
the former experiment my lack of success with the freshly killed bees.

This refusal to touch honey, whether poisonous or repugnant, is
connected with principles of alimentation too general to be a
gastronomic peculiarity of the Philanthus grub. Other carnivorous
larvæ--at least in the series of the Hymenoptera--must share it. Let us
experiment. The method need not be changed. I exhume the larvæ when in a
state of medium growth, to avoid the vicissitudes of extreme youth; I
collect the bodies of the grubs and insects which form their natural
diet and smear each body with honey, in which condition I return them to
the larvæ. A distinction is apparent: all the larvæ are not equally
suited to my experiment. Those larvæ must be rejected which are
nourished upon one single corpulent insect, as is that of the Scolia.
The grub attacks its prey at a determined point, plunges its head and
neck into the body of the insect, skilfully divides the entrails in
order to keep the remains fresh until its meal is ended, and does not
emerge from the opening until all is consumed but the empty skin.

To interrupt the larva with the object of smearing the interior of its
prey with honey is doubly objectionable; I might extinguish the
lingering vitality which keeps putrefaction at bay in the victim, and I
might confuse the delicate art of the larva, which might not be able to
recover the lode at which it was working or to distinguish between those
parts which are lawfully and properly eaten and those which must not be
consumed until a later period. As I have shown in a previous volume, the
grub of the Scolia has taught me much in this respect. The only larvæ
acceptable for this experiment are those which are fed on a number of
small insects, which are attacked without any special art, dismembered
at random, and quickly consumed. Among such larvæ I have experimented
with those provided by chance--those of various Bembeces, fed on
Diptera; those of the Palaris, whose diet consists of a large variety of
Hymenoptera; those of the Tachytus, provided with young crickets; those
of the Odynerus, fed upon larvæ of the Chrysomela; those of the
sand-dwelling Cerceris, endowed with a hecatomb of weevils. As will be
seen, both consumers and consumed offer plenty of variety. Well, in
every case their proper diet, seasoned with honey, is fatal. Whether
poisoned or disgusted, they all die in a few days.

A strange result! Honey, the nectar of the flowers, the sole diet of the
apiary under its two forms and the sole nourishment of the predatory
insect in its adult phase, is for the larva of the same insect an object
of insurmountable disgust, and probably a poison. The transfiguration of
the chrysalis surprises me less than this inversion of the appetite.
What change occurs in the stomach of the insect that the adult should
passionately seek that which the larva refuses under peril of death? It
is no question of organic debility unable to support a diet too
substantial, too hard, or too highly spiced. The grubs which consume the
larva of the Cetoniæ, for example (the Rose-chafers), those which feed
upon the leathery cricket, and those whose diet is rich in nitrobenzine,
must assuredly have complacent gullets and adaptable stomachs. Yet these
robust eaters die of hunger or poison for no greater cause than a drop
of syrup, the lightest diet imaginable, adapted to the weakness of
extreme youth, and a delicacy to the adult! What a gulf of obscurity in
the stomach of a miserable worm!

These gastronomic experiments called for a counter-proof. The
carnivorous grub is killed by honey. Is the honey-fed grub, inversely,
killed by carnivorous diet? Here, again, we must make certain
exceptions, observe a certain choice, as in the previous experiments. It
would obviously be courting a flat refusal to offer a heap of young
crickets to the larvæ of the Anthophorus and the Osmia, for example; the
honey-fed grub would not bite such food. It would be absolutely useless
to make such an experiment. We must find the equivalent of the bee
smeared with honey; that is, we must offer the larva its ordinary food
with a mixture of animal matter added. I shall experiment with albumen,
as provided by the egg of the hen; albumen being an isomer of fibrine,
which is the principal element of all flesh diet.

_Osmia tricornis_ will lend itself to my experiment better than any
other insect on account of its dry honey, or bee-bread, which is largely
formed of flowery pollen. I knead it with the albumen, graduating the
dose of the latter so that its weight largely exceeds that of the
bee-bread. Thus I obtain pastes of various degrees of consistency, but
all firm enough to support the larva without danger of immersion. With
too fluid a mixture there would be a danger of death by drowning.
Finally, on each cake of albuminous paste I install a larva of medium
growth.

This diet is not distasteful; far from it. The grubs attack it without
hesitation and devour it with every appearance of a normal appetite.
Matters could not go better if the food had not been modified according
to my recipes. All is eaten; even the portions which I feared contained
an excessive proportion of albumen. Moreover--a matter of still greater
importance--the larvæ of the Osmia fed in this manner attain their
normal growth and spin their cocoons, from which adults issue in the
following year. Despite the albuminous diet the cycle of evolution
completes itself without mishap.

What are we to conclude from all this? I confess I am embarrassed. _Omne
vivum ex ovo_, says the physiologist. All animals are carnivorous in
their first beginnings; they are formed and nourished at the expense of
the egg, in which albumen predominates. The highest, the mammals, adhere
to this diet for a considerable time; they live by the maternal milk,
rich in casein, another isomer of albumen. The gramnivorous nestling is
fed first upon worms and grubs, which are best adapted to the delicacy
of its stomach; many newly born creatures among the lower orders, being
immediately left to their own devices, live on animal diet. In this way
the original method of alimentation is continued--the method which
builds flesh out of flesh and makes blood out of blood with no chemical
processes but those of simple reconstruction. In maturity, when the
stomach is more robust, a vegetable diet may be adopted, involving a
more complex chemistry, although the food itself is more easily
obtained. To milk succeeds fodder; to the worm, seeds and grain; to the
dead or paralysed insects of the natal burrow, the nectar of flowers.

Here is a partial explanation of the double system of the Hymenoptera
with their carnivorous larvæ--the system of dead or paralysed insects
followed by honey. But here the point of interrogation, already
encountered elsewhere, erects itself once again. Why is the larva of
the Osmia, which thrives upon albumen, actually fed upon honey during
its early life? Why is a vegetable diet the rule in the hives of bees
from the very commencement, when the other members of the same series
live upon animal food?

If I were a "transformist" how I should delight in this question! Yes, I
should say: yes, by the fact of its germ every animal is originally
carnivorous. The insect in particular makes a beginning with albuminoid
materials. Many larvæ adhere to the alimentation present in the egg, as
do many adult insects also. But the struggle to fill the belly, which is
actually the struggle for life, demands something better than the
precarious chances of the chase. Man, at first an eager hunter of game,
collected flocks and became a shepherd in order to profit by his
possessions in time of dearth. Further progress inspired him to till the
earth and sow; a method which assured him of a certain living. Evolution
from the defective to the mediocre, and from the mediocre to the
abundant, has led to the resources of agriculture.

The lower animals have preceded us on the way of progress. The ancestors
of the Philanthus, in the remote ages of the lacustrian tertiary
formations, lived by capturing prey in both phases--both as larvæ and as
adults; they hunted for their own benefit as well as for the family.
They did not confine themselves to emptying the stomach of the bee, as
do their descendants to-day; they devoured the victim entire. From
beginning to end they remained carnivorous. Later there were fortunate
innovators, whose race supplanted the more conservative element, who
discovered an inexhaustible source of nourishment, to be obtained
without painful search or dangerous conflict: the saccharine exudation
of the flowers. The wasteful system of living upon prey, by no means
favourable to large populations, has been preserved for the feeble
larvæ; but the vigorous adult has abandoned it for an easier and more
prosperous existence. Thus the Philanthus of our own days was gradually
developed; thus was formed the double system of nourishment practised by
the various predatory insects which we know.

The bee has done still better; from the moment of leaving the egg it
dispenses completely with chance-won aliments. It has invented honey,
the food of its larvæ. Renouncing the chase for ever, and becoming
exclusively agricultural, this insect has acquired a degree of moral and
physical prosperity that the predatory species are far from sharing.
Hence the flourishing colonies of the Anthophoræ, the Osmiæ, the Euceræ,
the Halicti, and other makers of honey, while the hunters of prey work
in isolation; hence the societies in which the bee displays its
admirable talents, the supreme expression of instinct.

This is what I should say if I were a "transformist." All this is a
chain of highly logical deductions, and it hangs together with a certain
air of reality, such as we like to look for in a host of "transformist"
arguments which are put forward as irrefutable. Well, I make a present
of my deductive theory to whosoever desires it, and without the least
regret; I do not believe a single word of it, and I confess my profound
ignorance of the origin of the twofold system of diet.

One thing I do see more clearly after all my experiments and research:
the tactics of the Philanthus. As a witness of its ferocious feasting,
the true motive of which was unknown to me, I treated it to all the
unfavourable epithets I could think of; called it assassin, bandit,
pirate, robber of the dead. Ignorance is always abusive; the man who
does not know is full of violent affirmations and malign
interpretations. Undeceived by the facts, I hasten to apologise and
express my esteem for the Philanthus. In emptying the stomach of the bee
the mother is performing the most praiseworthy of all duties; she is
guarding her family against poison. If she sometimes kills on her own
account and abandons the body after exhausting it of honey, I dare not
call her action a crime. When the habit has once been formed of emptying
the bee's crop for the best of motives, the temptation is great to do so
with no other excuse than hunger. Moreover--who can say?--perhaps there
is always some afterthought that the larvæ might profit by the
sacrifice. Although not carried into effect the intention excuses the
act.

I therefore withdraw my abusive epithets in order to express my
admiration of the creature's maternal logic. Honey would be harmful to
the grubs. How does the mother know that honey, in which she herself
delights, is noxious to her young? To this question our knowledge has no
reply. But honey, as we have seen, would endanger the lives of the
grubs. The bees must therefore be emptied of honey before they are fed
to them. The process must be effected without wounding the victim, for
the larva must receive the latter fresh and moist; and this would be
impracticable if the insect were paralysed on account of the natural
resistance of the organs. The bee must therefore be killed outright
instead of being paralysed, otherwise the honey could not be removed.
Instantaneous death can be assured only by a lesion of the primordial
centre of life. The sting must therefore pierce the cervical ganglions;
the centre of innervation upon which the rest of the organism is
dependent. This can only be reached in one way: through the neck. Here
it is that the sting will be inserted; and here it is inserted in a
breach in the armour no larger than a pin's head. Suppress a single link
of this closely knit chain, and the Philanthus reared upon the flesh of
bees becomes an impossibility.

That honey is fatal to larvæ is a fact pregnant with consequences.
Various predatory insects feed their young with honey-makers. Such, to
my knowledge, are the _Philanthus coronatus_, Fabr., which stores its
burrows with the large Halictus; the _Philanthus raptor_, Lep., which
chases all the smaller Halictus indifferently, being itself a small
insect; the _Cerceris ornata_, Fabr., which also kills Halictus; and the
_Polaris flavipes_, Fabr., which by a strange eclecticism fills its
cells with specimens of most of the Hymenoptera which are not beyond its
powers. What do these four huntresses, and others of similar habits, do
with their victims when the crops of the latter are full of honey? They
must follow the example of the Philanthus or their offspring would
perish; they must squeeze and manipulate the dead bee until it yields up
its honey. Everything goes to prove as much; but for the actual
observation of what would be a notable proof of my theory I must trust
to the future.





It was a memorable night! I will name it the Night of the Great Peacock.
Who does not know this superb moth, the largest of all our European
butterflies[3] with its livery of chestnut velvet and its collar of
white fur? The greys and browns of the wings are crossed by a paler
zig-zag, and bordered with smoky white; and in the centre of each wing
is a round spot, a great eye with a black pupil and variegated iris,
resolving into concentric arcs of black, white, chestnut, and purplish
red.

Not less remarkable is the caterpillar. Its colour is a vague yellow. On
the summit of thinly sown tubercles crowned with a palisade of black
hairs are set pearls of a turquoise-blue. The burly brown cocoon, which
is notable for its curious tunnel of exit, like an eel-pot, is always
found at the base of an old almond-tree, adhering to the bark. The
foliage of the same tree nourishes the caterpillar.

On the morning of the 6th of May a female emerged from her cocoon in my
presence on my laboratory table. I cloistered her immediately, all damp
with the moisture of metamorphosis, in a cover of wire gauze. I had no
particular intentions regarding her; I imprisoned her from mere habit;
the habit of an observer always on the alert for what may happen.

I was richly rewarded. About nine o'clock that evening, when the
household was going to bed, there was a sudden hubbub in the room next
to mine. Little Paul, half undressed, was rushing to and fro, running,
jumping, stamping, and overturning the chairs as if possessed. I heard
him call me. "Come quick!" he shrieked; "come and see these butterflies!
Big as birds! The room's full of them!"

I ran. There was that which justified the child's enthusiasm and his
hardly hyperbolical exclamation. It was an invasion of giant
butterflies; an invasion hitherto unexampled in our house. Four were
already caught and placed in a bird-cage. Others--numbers of them--were
flying across the ceiling.

This astonishing sight recalled the prisoner of the morning to my mind.
"Put on your togs, kiddy!" I told my son; "put down your cage, and come
with me. We shall see something worth seeing."

We had to go downstairs to reach my study, which occupies the right wing
of the house. In the kitchen we met the servant; she too was bewildered
by the state of affairs. She was pursuing the huge butterflies with her
apron, having taken them at first for bats.

It seemed as though the Great Peacock had taken possession of my whole
house, more or less. What would it be upstairs, where the prisoner was,
the cause of this invasion? Happily one of the two study windows had
been left ajar; the road was open.



Candle in hand, we entered the room. What we saw is unforgettable. With
a soft _flic-flac_ the great night-moths were flying round the
wire-gauze cover, alighting, taking flight, returning, mounting to the
ceiling, re-descending. They rushed at the candle and extinguished it
with a flap of the wing; they fluttered on our shoulders, clung to our
clothing, grazed our faces. My study had become a cave of a necromancer,
the darkness alive with creatures of the night! Little Paul, to reassure
himself, held my hand much tighter than usual.

How many were there? About twenty. To these add those which had strayed
into the kitchen, the nursery, and other rooms in the house, and the
total must have been nearly forty. It was a memorable sight--the Night
of the Great Peacock! Come from all points of the compass, warned I know
not how, here were forty lovers eager to do homage to the maiden
princess that morning born in the sacred precincts of my study.

For the time being I troubled the swarm of pretenders no further. The
flame of the candle endangered the visitors; they threw themselves into
it stupidly and singed themselves slightly. On the morrow we could
resume our study of them, and make certain carefully devised
experiments.

To clear the ground a little for what is to follow, let me speak of what
was repeated every night during the eight nights my observations lasted.
Every night, when it was quite dark, between eight and ten o'clock, the
butterflies arrived one by one. The weather was stormy; the sky heavily
clouded; the darkness was so profound that out of doors, in the garden
and away from the trees, one could scarcely see one's hand before one's
face.

In addition to such darkness as this there were certain difficulties of
access. The house is hidden by great plane-trees; an alley densely
bordered with lilacs and rose-trees make a kind of outer vestibule to
the entrance; it is protected from the _mistral_ by groups of pines and
screens of cypress. A thicket of evergreen shrubs forms a rampart at a
few paces from the door. It was across this maze of leafage, and in
absolute darkness, that the butterflies had to find their way in order
to attain the end of their pilgrimage.

Under such conditions the screech-owl would not dare to forsake its
hollow in the olive-tree. The butterfly, better endowed with its faceted
eyes than the owl with its single pupils, goes forward without
hesitation, and threads the obstacles without contact. So well it
directs its tortuous flight that, in spite of all the obstacles to be
evaded, it arrives in a state of perfect freshness, its great wings
intact, without the slightest flaw. The darkness is light enough for the
butterfly.

Even if we suppose it to be sensitive to rays unknown to the ordinary
retina, this extraordinary sight could not be the sense that warns the
butterfly at a distance and brings it hastening to the bride. Distance
and the objects interposed make the suggestion absurd.

Moreover, apart from illusory refractions, of which there is no question
here, the indications of light are precise; one goes straight to the
object seen. But the butterfly was sometimes mistaken: not in the
general direction, but concerning the precise position of the attractive
object. I have mentioned that the nursery on the other side of the house
to my study, which was the actual goal of the visitors, was full of
butterflies before a light was taken into it. These were certainly
incorrectly informed. In the kitchen there was the same crowd of
seekers gone astray; but there the light of a lamp, an irresistible
attraction to nocturnal insects, might have diverted the pilgrims.

Let us consider only such areas as were in darkness. There the pilgrims
were numerous. I found them almost everywhere in the neighbourhood of
their goal. When the captive was in my study the butterflies did not all
enter by the open window, the direct and easy way, the captive being
only a few yards from the window. Several penetrated the house
downstairs, wandered through the hall, and reached the staircase, which
was barred at the top by a closed door.

These data show us that the visitors to the wedding-feast did not go
straight to their goal as they would have done were they attracted by
any kind of luminous radiations, whether known or unknown to our
physical science. Something other than radiant energy warned them at a
distance, led them to the neighbourhood of the precise spot, and left
the final discovery to be made after a vague and hesitating search. The
senses of hearing and smell warn us very much in this way; they are not
precise guides when we try to determine exactly the point of origin of a
sound or smell.

What sense is it that informs this great butterfly of the whereabouts of
his mate, and leads him wandering through the night? What organ does
this sense affect? One suspects the antennæ; in the male butterfly they
actually seem to be sounding, interrogating empty space with their long
feathery plumes. Are these splendid plumes merely items of finery, or do
they really play a part in the perception of the effluvia which guide
the lover? It seemed easy, on the occasion I spoke of, to devise a
conclusive experiment.

On the morrow of the invasion I found in my study eight of my nocturnal
visitors. They were perched, motionless, upon the cross-mouldings of the
second window, which had remained closed. The others, having concluded
their ballet by about ten o'clock at night, had left as they had
entered, by the other window, which was left open night and day. These
eight persevering lovers were just what I required for my experiment.

With a sharp pair of scissors, and without otherwise touching the
butterflies, I cut off their antennæ near the base. The victims barely
noticed the operation. None moved; there was scarcely a flutter of the
wings. Their condition was excellent; the wound did not seem to be in
the least serious. They were not perturbed by physical suffering, and
would therefore be all the better adapted to my designs. They passed the
rest of the day in placid immobility on the cross-bars of the window.

A few other arrangements were still to be made. In particular it was
necessary to change the scene; not to leave the female under the eyes of
the mutilated butterflies at the moment of resuming their nocturnal
flight; the difficulty of the search must not be lessened. I therefore
removed the cage and its captive, and placed it under a porch on the
other side of the house, at a distance of some fifty paces from my
study.

At nightfall I went for a last time to inspect my eight victims. Six had
left by the open window; two still remained, but they had fallen on the
floor, and no longer had the strength to recover themselves if turned
over on their backs. They were exhausted, dying. Do not accuse my
surgery, however. Such early decease was observed repeatedly, with no
intervention on my part.

Six, in better condition, had departed. Would they return to the call
that attracted them the night before? Deprived of their antennæ, would
they be able to find the captive, now placed at a considerable distance
from her original position?

The cage was in darkness, almost in the open air. From time to time I
visited it with a net and lantern. The visitors were captured,
inspected, and immediately released in a neighbouring room, of which I
closed the door. This gradual elimination allowed me to count the
visitors exactly without danger of counting the same butterfly more than
once. Moreover, the provisional prison, large and bare, in no wise
harmed or endangered the prisoners; they found a quiet retreat there and
ample space. Similar precautions were taken during the rest of my
experiments.

After half-past ten no more arrived. The reception was over. Total,
twenty-five males captured, of which one only was deprived of its
antennæ. So of the six operated on earlier in the day, which were strong
enough to leave my study and fly back to the fields, only one had
returned to the cage. A poor result, in which I could place no
confidence as proving whether the antennæ did or did not play a
directing part. It was necessary to begin again upon a larger scale.

Next morning I visited the prisoners of the day before. What I saw was
not encouraging. A large number were scattered on the ground, almost
inert. Taken between the fingers, several of them gave scarcely a sign
of life. Little was to be hoped from these, it would seem. Still, I
determined to try; perhaps they would regain their vigour at the lover's
hour.

The twenty-four prisoners were all subjected to the amputation of their
antennæ. The one operated on the day before was put aside as dying or
nearly so. Finally the door of the prison was left open for the rest of
the day. Those might leave who could; those could join in the carnival
who were able. In order to put those that might leave the room to the
test of a search, the cage, which they must otherwise have encountered
at the threshold, was again removed, and placed in a room of the
opposite wing, on the ground floor. There was of course free access to
this room.

Of the twenty-four lacking their antennæ sixteen only left the room.
Eight were powerless to do so; they were dying. Of the sixteen, how many
returned to the cage that night? Not one. My captives that night were
only seven, all new-comers, all wearing antennæ. This result seemed to
prove that the amputation of the antennæ was a matter of serious
significance. But it would not do to conclude as yet: one doubt
remained.

"A fine state I am in! How shall I dare to appear before the other
dogs?" said Mouflard, the puppy whose ears had been pitilessly docked.
Had my butterflies apprehensions similar to Master Mouflard's? Deprived
of their beautiful plumes, were they ashamed to appear in the midst of
their rivals, and to prefer their suits? Was it confusion on their part,
or want of guidance? Was it not rather exhaustion after an attempt
exceeding the duration of an ephemeral passion? Experience would show
me.

On the fourth night I took fourteen new-comers and set them apart as
they came in a room in which they spent the night. On the morrow,
profiting by their diurnal immobility, I removed a little of the hair
from the centre of the corselet or neck. This slight tonsure did not
inconvenience the insects, so easily was the silky fur removed, nor did
it deprive them of any organ which might later on be necessary in the
search for the female. To them it was nothing; for me it was the
unmistakable sign of a repeated visit.

This time there were none incapable of flight. At night the fourteen
shavelings escaped into the open air. The cage, of course, was again in
a new place. In two hours I captured twenty butterflies, of whom two
were tonsured; no more. As for those whose antennæ I had amputated the
night before, not one reappeared. Their nuptial period was over.

Of fourteen marked by the tonsure two only returned. Why did the other
twelve fail to appear, although furnished with their supposed guides,
their antennæ? To this I can see only one reply: that the Great Peacock
is promptly exhausted by the ardours of the mating season.

With a view to mating, the sole end of its life, the great moth is
endowed with a marvellous prerogative. It has the power to discover the
object of its desire in spite of distance, in spite of obstacles. A few
hours, for two or three nights, are given to its search, its nuptial
flights. If it cannot profit by them, all is ended; the compass fails,
the lamp expires. What profit could life hold henceforth? Stoically the
creature withdraws into a corner and sleeps the last sleep, the end of
illusions and the end of suffering.

The Great Peacock exists as a butterfly only to perpetuate itself. It
knows nothing of food. While so many others, joyful banqueters, fly from
flower to flower, unrolling their spiral trunks to plunge them into
honeyed blossoms, this incomparable ascetic, completely freed from the
servitude of the stomach, has no means of restoring its strength. Its
buccal members are mere vestiges, useless simulacra, not real organs
able to perform their duties. Not a sip of honey can ever enter its
stomach; a magnificent prerogative, if it is not long enjoyed. If the
lamp is to burn it must be filled with oil. The Great Peacock renounces
the joys of the palate; but with them it surrenders long life. Two or
three nights--just long enough to allow the couple to meet and mate--and
all is over; the great butterfly is dead.

What, then, is meant by the non-appearance of those whose antennæ I
removed? Did they prove that the lack of antennæ rendered them incapable
of finding the cage in which the prisoner waited? By no means. Like
those marked with the tonsure, which had undergone no damaging
operation, they proved only that their time was finished. Mutilated or
intact, they could do no more on account of age, and their absence meant
nothing. Owing to the delay inseparable from the experiment, the part
played by the antennæ escaped me. It was doubtful before; it remained
doubtful.

My prisoner under the wire-gauze cover lived for eight days. Every night
she attracted a swarm of visitors, now to one part of the house, now to
another. I caught them with the net and released them as soon as
captured in a closed room, where they passed the night. On the next day
they were marked, by means of a slight tonsure on the thorax.

The total number of butterflies attracted on these eight nights amounted
to a hundred and fifty; a stupendous number when I consider what
searches I had to undertake during the two following years in order to
collect the specimens necessary to the continuation of my investigation.
Without being absolutely undiscoverable, in my immediate neighbourhood
the cocoons of the Great Peacock are at least extremely rare, as the
trees on which they are found are not common. For two winters I visited
all the decrepit almond-trees at hand, inspected them all at the base of
the trunk, under the jungle of stubborn grasses and undergrowth that
surrounded them; and how often I returned with empty hands! Thus my
hundred and fifty butterflies had come from some little distance;
perhaps from a radius of a mile and a quarter or more. How did they
learn of what was happening in my study?

Three agents of information affect the senses at a distance: sight,
sound, and smell. Can we speak of vision in this connection? Sight could
very well guide the arrivals once they had entered the open window; but
how could it help them out of doors, among unfamiliar surroundings? Even
the fabulous eye of the lynx, which could see through walls, would not
be sufficient; we should have to imagine a keenness of vision capable of
annihilating leagues of space. It is needless to discuss the matter
further; sight cannot be the guiding sense.

Sound is equally out of the question. The big-bodied creature capable of
calling her mates from such a distance is absolutely mute, even to the
most sensitive ear. Does she perhaps emit vibrations of such delicacy or
rapidity that only the most sensitive microphone could appreciate them?
The idea is barely possible; but let us remember that the visitors must
have been warned at distances of some thousands of yards. Under these
conditions it is useless to think of acoustics.

Smell remains. Scent, better than any other impression in the domain of
our senses, would explain the invasion of butterflies, and their
difficulty at the very last in immediately finding the object of their
search. Are there effluvia analogous to what we call odour: effluvia of
extreme subtlety, absolutely imperceptible to us, yet capable of
stimulating a sense-organ far more sensitive than our own? A simple
experiment suggested itself. I would mask these effluvia, stifle them
under a powerful, tenacious odour, which would take complete possession
of the sense-organ and neutralise the less powerful impression.

I began by sprinkling naphthaline in the room intended for the reception
of the males that evening. Beside the female, inside the wire-gauze
cover, I placed a large capsule full of the same substance. When the
hour of the nocturnal visit arrived I had only to stand at the door of
the room to smell a smell as of a gas-works. Well, my artifice failed.
The butterflies arrived as usual, entered the room, traversed its
gas-laden atmosphere, and made for the wire-gauze cover with the same
certainty as in a room full of fresh air.

My confidence in the olfactory theory was shaken. Moreover, I could not
continue my experiments. On the ninth day, exhausted by her fruitless
period of waiting, the female died, having first deposited her barren
eggs upon the woven wire of her cage. Lacking a female, nothing could be
done until the following year.

I determined next time to take suitable precautions and to make all
preparations for repeating at will the experiments already made and
others which I had in mind. I set to work at once, without delay.

In the summer I began to buy caterpillars at a halfpenny apiece.

The market was in the hands of some neighbouring urchins, my habitual
providers. On Friday, free of the terrors of grammar, they scoured the
fields, finding from time to time the Great Peacock caterpillar, and
bringing it to me clinging to the end of a stick. They did not dare to
touch it, poor little imps! They were thunderstruck at my audacity when
I seized it in my fingers as they would the familiar silkworm.

Reared upon twigs of the almond-tree, my menagerie soon provided me with
magnificent cocoons. In winter assiduous search at the base of the
native trees completed my collection. Friends interested in my
researches came to my aid. Finally, after some trouble, what with an
open market, commercial negotiations, and searching, at the cost of many
scratches, in the undergrowth, I became the owner of an assortment of
cocoons of which twelve, larger and heavier than the rest, announced
that they were those of females.

Disappointment awaited me. May arrived; a capricious month which set my
preparations at naught, troublesome as these had been. Winter returned.
The _mistral_ shrieked, tore the budding leaves of the plane-trees, and
scattered them over the ground. It was cold as December. We had to
light fires in the evening, and resume the heavy clothes we had begun to
leave off.

My butterflies were too sorely tried. They emerged late and were torpid.
Around my cages, in which the females waited--to-day one, to-morrow
another, according to the order of their birth--few males or none came
from without. Yet there were some in the neighbourhood, for those with
large antennæ which issued from my collection of cocoons were placed in
the garden directly they had emerged, and were recognised. Whether
neighbours or strangers, very few came, and those without enthusiasm.
For a moment they entered, then disappeared and did not reappear. The
lovers were as cold as the season.

Perhaps, too, the low temperature was unfavourable to the informing
effluvia, which might well be increased by heat and lessened by cold as
is the case with many odours. My year was lost. Research is
disappointing work when the experimenter is the slave of the return and
the caprices of a brief season of the year.

For the third time I began again. I reared caterpillars; I scoured the
country in search of cocoons. When May returned I was tolerably
provided. The season was fine, responding to my hopes. I foresaw the
affluence of butterflies which had so impressed me at the outset, when
the famous invasion occurred which was the origin of my experiments.

Every night, by squadrons of twelve, twenty, or more, the visitors
appeared. The female, a strapping, big-bellied matron, clung to the
woven wire of the cover. There was no movement on her part; not even a
flutter of the wings. One would have thought her indifferent to all
that occurred. No odour was emitted that was perceptible to the most
sensitive nostrils of the household; no sound that the keenest ears of
the household could perceive. Motionless, recollected, she waited.

The males, by twos, by threes and more, fluttered upon the dome of the
cover, scouring over it quickly in all directions, beating it
continually with the ends of their wings. There were no conflicts
between rivals. Each did his best to penetrate the enclosure, without
betraying any sign of jealousy of the others. Tiring of their fruitless
attempts, they would fly away and join the dance of the gyrating crowd.
Some, in despair, would escape by the open window: new-comers would
replace them: and until ten o'clock or thereabouts the wire dome of the
cover would be the scene of continual attempts at approach, incessantly
commencing, quickly wearying, quickly resumed.

Every night the position of the cage was changed. I placed it north of
the house and south; on the ground-floor and the first floor; in the
right wing of the house, or fifty yards away in the left wing; in the
open air, or hidden in some distant room. All these sudden removals,
devised to put the seekers off the scent, troubled them not at all. My
time and my pains were wasted, so far as deceiving them was concerned.

The memory of places has no part in the finding of the female. For
instance, the day before the cage was installed in a certain room. The
males visited the room and fluttered about the cage for a couple of
hours, and some even passed the night there. On the following day, at
sunset, when I moved the cage, all were out of doors. Although their
lives are so ephemeral, the youngest were ready to resume their
nocturnal expeditions a second and even a third time. Where did they
first go, these veterans of a day?

They knew precisely where the cage had been the night before. One would
have expected them to return to it, guided by memory; and that not
finding it they would go out to continue their search elsewhere. No;
contrary to my expectation, nothing of the kind appeared. None came to
the spot which had been so crowded the night before; none paid even a
passing visit. The room was recognised as an empty room, with no
previous examination, such as would apparently be necessary to
contradict the memory of the place. A more positive guide than memory
called them elsewhere.

Hitherto the female was always visible, behind the meshes of the
wire-gauze cover. The visitors, seeing plainly in the dark night, must
have been able to see her by the vague luminosity of what for us is the
dark. What would happen if I imprisoned her in an opaque receptacle?
Would not such a receptacle arrest or set free the informing effluvia
according to its nature?

Practical physics has given us wireless telegraphy by means of the
Hertzian vibrations of the ether. Had the Great Peacock butterfly
outstripped and anticipated mankind in this direction? In order to
disturb the whole surrounding neighbourhood, to warn pretenders at a
distance of a mile or more, does the newly emerged female make use of
electric or magnetic waves, known or unknown, that a screen of one
material would arrest while another would allow them to pass? In a word,
does she, after her fashion, employ a system of wireless telegraphy? I
see nothing impossible in this; insects are responsible for many
inventions equally marvellous.

Accordingly I lodged the female in boxes of various materials; boxes of
tin-plate, wood, and cardboard. All were hermetically closed, even
sealed with a greasy paste. I also used a glass bell resting upon a
base-plate of glass.

Under these conditions not a male arrived; not one, though the warmth
and quiet of the evening were propitious. Whatever its nature, whether
of glass, metal, card, or wood, the closed receptacle was evidently an
insuperable obstacle to the warning effluvia.

A layer of cotton-wool two fingers in thickness had the same result. I
placed the female in a large glass jar, and laced a piece of thin cotton
batting over the mouth for a cover; this again guarded the secret of my
laboratory. Not a male appeared.

But when I placed the females in boxes which were imperfectly closed, or
which had chinks in their sides, or even hid them in a drawer or a
cupboard, I found the males arrived in numbers as great as when the
object of their search lay in the cage of open wire-work freely exposed
on a table. I have a vivid memory of one evening when the recluse was
hidden in a hat-box at the bottom of a wall-cupboard. The arrivals went
straight to the closed doors, and beat them with their wings, _toc-toc_,
trying to enter. Wandering pilgrims, come from I know not where, across
fields and meadows, they knew perfectly what was behind the doors of the
cupboard.

So we must abandon the idea that the butterfly has any means of
communication comparable to our wireless telegraphy, as any kind of
screen, whether a good or a bad conductor, completely stops the signals
of the female. To give them free passage and allow them to penetrate to
a distance one condition is indispensable: the enclosure in which the
captive is confined must not be hermetically sealed; there must be a
communication between it and the outer air. This again points to the
probability of an odour, although this is contradicted by my experiment
with the naphthaline.

My cocoons were all hatched, and the problem was still obscure. Should I
begin all over again in the fourth year? I did not do so, for the reason
that it is difficult to observe a nocturnal butterfly if one wishes to
follow it in all its intimate actions. The lover needs no light to
attain his ends; but my imperfect human vision cannot penetrate the
darkness. I should require a candle at least, and a candle would be
constantly extinguished by the revolving swarm. A lantern would obviate
these eclipses, but its doubtful light, interspersed with heavy shadows,
by no means commends it to the scruples of an observer, who must see,
and see well.

Moreover, the light of a lamp diverts the butterflies from their object,
distracts them from their affairs, and seriously compromises the success
of the observer. The moment they enter, they rush frantically at the
flame, singe their down, and thereupon, terrified by the heat, are of no
profit to the observer. If, instead of being roasted, they are held at a
distance by an envelope of glass, they press as closely as they can to
the flame, and remain motionless, hypnotised.



One night, the female being in the dining-room, on the table, facing the
open window, a petroleum lamp, furnished with a large reflector in
opaline glass, was hanging from the ceiling. The arrivals alighted on
the dome of the wire-gauze cover, crowding eagerly about the
prisoner; others, saluting her in passing, flew to the lamp, circled
round it a few times, and then, fascinated by the luminous splendour
radiating from the opal cone of light, clung there motionless under the
reflector. Already the children were raising their hands to seize them.
"Leave them," I said, "leave them. Let us be hospitable: do not disturb
the pilgrims who have come to the tabernacle of the light."

During the whole evening not one of them moved. Next day they were still
there. The intoxication of the light had made them forget the
intoxication of love.

With creatures so madly in love with the light precise and prolonged
experimentation is impracticable the moment the observer requires
artificial light. I renounced the Great Peacock and its nocturnal
habits. I required a butterfly with different habits; equally notable as
a lover, but seeking out the beloved by day.

Before going on to speak of my experiments with a subject fulfilling
these conditions, let me break the chronological order of my record in
order to say a few words concerning another insect, which appeared after
I had completed these inquiries. I refer to the Lesser Peacock (_Attacus
pavonia minor_, Lin.).

Some one brought me, from what locality I do not know, a superb cocoon
enveloped in an ample wrapping of white silk. From this covering, which
lay in large irregular folds, the chrysalis was easily detached; in
shape like that of the Great Peacock, but considerably less in size. The
anterior extremity, which is defended by an arrangement of fine twigs,
converging, and free at the converging ends, forming a device not unlike
an eel-pot, which presents access to the chrysalis while allowing the
butterfly to emerge without breaking the defence, indicated a relative
of the great nocturnal butterfly; the silk-work denoted a spinning
caterpillar.

Towards the end of March this curious cocoon yielded up a female of the
Lesser Peacock, which was immediately sequestered under a wire-gauze
cover in my study. I opened the window to allow news of the event to
reach the surrounding country, and left it open so that such visitors as
presented themselves should find free access to the cage. The captive
clung to the wire gauze and did not move for a week.

She was a superb creature, this prisoner of mine, with her suit of brown
velvet, crossed by undulating lines. The neck was surrounded by white
fur; there was a carmine spot at the extremity of the upper wings, and
four great eyes in which were grouped, in concentric crescents, black,
white, red, and yellow ochre: almost the colouring of the Great Peacock,
but more vivid. Three or four times in my life I had encountered this
butterfly, so remarkable for its size and its costume. The cocoon I had
recently seen for the first time; the male I had never seen. I only knew
that, according to the books, it was half the size of the female, and
less vividly coloured, with orange-yellow on the lower wings.

Would he appear, the elegant unknown, with waving plumes; the butterfly
I had never yet seen, so rare does the Lesser Peacock seem to be in our
country? Would he, in some distant hedge, receive warning of the bride
who waited on my study table? I dared to hope it, and I was right. He
arrived even sooner than I had hoped.

Noon struck as we were sitting down to table, when little Paul, delayed
by his absorption in the expected event, suddenly ran to rejoin us, his
cheeks glowing. Between his fingers we saw the fluttering wings of a
handsome butterfly, caught but a moment before, while it was hovering in
front of my study. He showed it me, questioning me with his eyes.

"Aha!" I cried, "this is precisely the pilgrim we are waiting for. Fold
your napkin and come and see what happens. We will dine later."

Dinner was forgotten before the marvels that came to pass. With
inconceivable punctuality the butterflies hastened to meet the magical
call of the captive. With tortuous flight they arrived one by one. All
came from the north. This detail is significant. A week earlier there
had been a savage return of the winter. The _bise_ blew tempestuously,
killing the early almond blossom. It was one of those ferocious storms
which in the South commonly serve as a prelude to the spring. But the
temperature had now suddenly softened, although the wind still blew from
the north.

Now on this first occasion all the butterflies hastening to the prisoner
entered the garden from the north. They followed the direction of the
wind; not one flew against it. If their guide was a sense of smell like
ours, if they were guided by fragrant atoms suspended in the air, they
should have arrived in the opposite direction. Coming from the south, we
might believe them to be warned by effluvia carried on the wind; coming
from the north in time of _mistral_, that resistless sweeper of earth
and air, how can we suppose that they had perceived, at a remote
distance, what we will call an odour? The idea of a flow of odoriferous
atoms in a direction contrary to that of the aerial torrent seems to me
inadmissible.

For two hours, under a radiant sun, the visitors came and went before
the outer wall of the study. Most of them sought for a long time,
exploring the wall, flying on a level with the ground. To see them thus
hesitating you would say that they were puzzled to find the exact
position of the lure which called them. Although they had come from such
a distance without a mistake, they seemed imperfectly informed once they
were on the spot. Nevertheless, sooner or later they entered the room
and saluted the captive, without showing any great ardour. At two
o'clock all was over. Ten butterflies had arrived.

During the whole week, and always about noon, at the hour of the
brightest sunlight, the butterflies arrived, but in decreasing numbers.
The total approached forty. I thought it useless to repeat experiments
which would add nothing to what I had already learned. I will confine
myself to stating two facts. In the first place, the Lesser Peacock is
diurnal; that is to say, it celebrates its mating under the dazzling
brilliance of noon. It needs the full force of the sunlight. The Great
Peacock, on the contrary, which it so closely resembles both in its
adult form and the work of its caterpillar, requires the darkness of the
first hours of the night. Who can explain this strange contrast in
habits?

In the second place, a powerful current of air, sweeping away in a
contrary direction all particles that might inform the sense of smell,
does not prevent the butterflies from arriving from a direction opposite
to that taken by the effluvial stream, as we understand such matters.

To continue: I needed a diurnal moth or butterfly: not the Lesser
Peacock, which came too late, when I had nothing to ask of it, but
another, no matter what, provided it was a prompt guest at the wedding
feast. Was I to find such an insect?






Yes: I was to find it. I even had it already in my possession. An urchin
of seven years, with an alert countenance, not washed every day, bare
feet, and dilapidated breeches supported by a piece of string, who
frequented the house as a dealer in turnips and tomatoes, arrived one
day with his basket of vegetables. Having received the few halfpence
expected by his mother as the price of the garden-stuff, and having
counted them one by one into the hollow of his hand, he took from his
pocket an object which he had discovered the day before beneath a hedge
when gathering greenstuff for his rabbits.

"And this--will you have this?" he said, handing me the object. "Why,
certainly I will have it. Try to find me more, as many as you can, and
on Sunday you shall have lots of rides on the wooden horses. In the
meantime here is a penny for you. Don't forget it when you make up your
accounts; don't mix it with your turnip-money; put it by itself."
Beaming with satisfaction at such wealth, little touzle-head promised to
search industriously, already foreseeing a fortune.

When he had gone I examined the thing. It was worth examination. It was
a fine cocoon, thick and with blunt ends, very like a silkworm's cocoon,
firm to the touch and of a tawny colour. A brief reference to the
text-books almost convinced me that this was a cocoon of the _Bombyx
quercus_.[4] If so, what a find! I could continue my inquiry and perhaps
confirm what my study of the Great Peacock had made me suspect.

The Bombyx of the oak-tree is, in fact, a classic moth; indeed, there is
no entomological text-book but speaks of its exploits at mating-time. It
is said that a female emerged from the pupa in captivity, in the
interior of an apartment, and even in a closed box. It was far from the
country, amidst the tumult of a large city. Nevertheless, the event was
known to those concerned in the woods and meadows. Guided by some
mysterious compass, the males arrived, hastening from the distant
fields; they went to the box, fluttered against it, and flew to and fro
in the room.

These marvels I had learned by reading; but to see such a thing with
one's own eyes, and at the same time to devise experiments, is quite
another thing. What had my penny bargain in store for me? Would the
famous Bombyx issue from it?

Let us call it by its other name, the Banded Monk. This original name of
Monk was suggested by the costume of the male; a monk's robe of a modest
rusty red. But in the case of the female the brown fustian gives place
to a beautiful velvet, with a pale transversal band and little white
eyes on the fore pair of wings.

The Monk is not a common butterfly which can be caught by any one who
takes out a net at the proper season. I have never seen it around our
village or in the solitude of my grounds during a residence of twenty
years. It is true that I am not a fervent butterfly-catcher; the dead
insect of the collector's cabinet has little interest for me; I must
have it living, in the exercise of its functions. But although I have
not the collector's zeal I have an attentive eye to all that flies or
crawls in the fields. A butterfly so remarkable for its size and
colouring would never have escaped my notice had I encountered it.

The little searcher whom I had enticed by a promise of rides upon wooden
horses never made a second find. For three years I requisitioned friends
and neighbours, and especially their children, sharp-sighted snappers-up
of trifles; I myself hunted often under heaps of withered leaves; I
inspected stone-heaps and visited hollow tree-trunks. Useless pains; the
precious cocoon was not to be found. It is enough to say that the Banded
Monk is extremely rare in my neighbourhood. The importance of this fact
will presently appear.

As I suspected, my cocoon was truly that of the celebrated Oak Eggar. On
the 20th of August a female emerged from it: corpulent, big-bellied,
coloured like the male, but lighter in hue. I placed her under the usual
wire cover in the centre of my laboratory table, littered as it was with
books, bottles, trays, boxes, test-tubes, and other apparatus. I have
explained the situation in speaking of the Great Peacock. Two windows
light the room, both opening on the garden. One was closed, the other
open day and night. The butterfly was placed in the shade, between the
lines of the two windows, at a distance of 12 or 15 feet.

The rest of that day and the next went by without any occurrence worthy
of notice. Hanging by the feet to the front of the wire cover, on the
side nearest to the light, the prisoner was motionless, inert. There was
no oscillation of the wings, no tremor of the antennæ, the female of the
Great Peacock behaved in a similar fashion.

The female Bombyx gradually matured, her tender tissues gradually
becoming firmer. By some process of which our scientists have not the
least idea she elaborated a mysterious lure which would bring her lovers
from the four corners of the sky. What was happening in this big-bellied
body; what transmutations were accomplished, thus to affect the whole
countryside?

On the third day the bride was ready. The festival opened brilliantly. I
was in the garden, already despairing of success, for the days were
passing and nothing had occurred, when towards three in the afternoon,
the weather being very hot and the sun radiant, I perceived a crowd of
butterflies gyrating in the embrasure of the open window.

The lovers had at last come to visit their lady. Some were emerging from
the room, others were entering it; others, clinging to the wall of the
house, were resting as though exhausted by a long journey. I could see
others approaching in the distance, flying over the walls, over the
screens of cypress. They came from all directions, but at last with
decreasing frequency. I had missed the opening of the convocation, and
now the gathering was almost complete.

I went indoors and upstairs. This time, in full daylight and without
losing a detail, I witnessed once more the astonishing spectacle to
which the great nocturnal butterfly had first introduced me. The study
contained a cloud of males, which I estimated, at a glance, as being
about sixty in number, so far as the movement and confusion allowed me
to count them at all. After circling a few times over the cage many of
them went to the open window, but returned immediately to recommence
their evolutions. The most eager alighted on the cover, trampling on one
another, jostling one another, trying to get the best places. On the
other side of the barrier the captive, her great body hanging against
the wire, waited immovable. She betrayed not a sign of emotion in the
face of this turbulent swarm.

Going and entering, perched on the cover or fluttering round the room,
for more than three hours they continued their frenzied saraband. But
the sun was sinking, and the temperature was slowly falling. The ardour
of the butterflies also cooled. Many went out not to return. Others took
up their positions to wait for the gaieties of the following day; they
clung to the cross-bars of the closed window as the males of the Great
Peacock had done. The rejoicings were over for the day. They would
certainly be renewed on the morrow, since the courtship was without
result on account of the barrier of the wire-gauze cover.

But, alas I to my great disappointment, they were not resumed, and the
fault was mine. Late in the day a Praying Mantis was brought to me,
which merited attention on account of its exceptionally small size.
Preoccupied with the events of the afternoon, and absent-minded, I
hastily placed the predatory insect under the same cover as the moth.
It did not occur to me for a moment that this cohabitation could lead to
any harm. The Mantis was so slender, and the other so corpulent!

Alas! I little knew the fury of carnage animating the creature that
wielded those tiny grappling-irons! Next morning I met with a
disagreeable surprise: I found the little Mantis devouring the great
moth. The head and the fore part of the thorax had already disappeared.
Horrible creature! at what an evil hour you came to me! Goodbye to my
researches, the plans which I had caressed all night in my imagination!
For three years for lack of a subject, I was unable to resume them.

Bad luck, however, was not to make me forget the little I had learned.
On one single occasion about sixty males had arrived. Considering the
rarity of the Oak Eggar, and remembering the years of fruitless search
on the part of my helpers and myself, this number was no less than
stupefying. The undiscoverable had suddenly become multitudinous at the
call of the female.

Whence did they come? From all sides, and undoubtedly from considerable
distances. During my prolonged searches every bush and thicket and heap
of stones in my neighbourhood had become familiar to me, and I can
assert that the Oak Eggar was not to be found there. For such a swarm to
collect as I found in my laboratory the moths must have come from all
directions, from the whole district, and within a radius that I dare not
guess at.

Three years went by and by chance two more cocoons of the Monk or Oak
Eggar again fell into my hands. Both produced females, at an interval of
a few days towards the middle of August; so that I was able to vary and
repeat my experiments.

I rapidly repeated the experiments which had given me such positive
results in the instance of the Great Peacock moth. The pilgrims of the
day were no less skilful at finding their mates than the pilgrims of the
night. They laughed at all my tricks. Infallibly they found the
prisoners in their wire-gauze prisons, no matter in what part of the
house they were placed; they discovered them in the depths of a
wall-cupboard; they divined the secret of all manner of boxes, provided
these were not rigorously air-tight. They came no longer when the box
was hermetically sealed. So far this was only a repetition of the feats
of the Great Peacock.

A box perfectly closed, so that the air contained therein had no
communication with the external atmosphere, left the male in complete
ignorance of the recluse. Not a single one arrived, even when the box
was exposed and plain to see on the window-sill. Thus the idea of
strongly scented effluvia, which are cut off by screens of wood, metal,
card, glass, or what not, returns with double force.

I have shown that the great nocturnal moth was not thrown off the scent
by the powerful odour of naphthaline, which I thought would mask the
extra-subtle emanations of the female, which were imperceptible to human
olfactory organs. I repeated the experiment with the Oak Eggar. This
time I used all the resources of scent and stench that my knowledge of
drugs would permit.

A dozen saucers were arranged, some in the interior of the wire-gauze
cover, the prison of the female, and some around it, in an unbroken
circle. Some contained naphthaline; others the essential oil of
spike-lavender; others petroleum, and others a solution of alkaline
sulphur giving off a stench of rotten eggs. Short of asphyxiating the
prisoner I could do no more. These arrangements were made in the
morning, so that the room should be saturated when the congregation of
lovers should arrive.

In the afternoon the laboratory was filled with the most abominable
stench, in which the penetrating aroma of spike-lavender and the stink
of sulphuretted hydrogen were predominant. I must add that tobacco was
habitually smoked in this room, and in abundance. The concerted odours
of a gas-works, a smoking-room, a perfumery, a petroleum well, and a
chemical factory--would they succeed in confusing the male moths?

By no means. About three o'clock the moths arrived in as great numbers
as usual. They went straight to the cage, which I had covered with a
thick cloth in order to add to their difficulties. Seeing nothing when
once they had entered, and immersed in an extraordinary atmosphere in
which any subtle fragrance should have been annihilated, they
nevertheless made straight for the prisoner, and attempted to reach her
by burrowing under the linen cloth. My artifice had no result.

After this set-back, so obvious in its consequences, which only repeated
the lesson of the experiments made with naphthaline when my subject was
the Great Peacock, I ought logically to have abandoned the theory that
the moths are guided to their wedding festivities by means of strongly
scented effluvia. That I did not do so was due to a fortuitous
observation. Chance often has a surprise in store which sets us on the
right road when we have been seeking it in vain.

One afternoon, while trying to determine whether sight plays any part in
the search for the female once the males had entered the room, I placed
the female in a bell-glass and gave her a slender twig of oak with
withered leaves as a support. The glass was set upon a table facing the
open window. Upon entering the room the moths could not fail to see the
prisoner, as she stood directly in the way. The tray, containing a layer
of sand, on which the female had passed the preceding day and night,
covered with a wire-gauze dish-cover, was in my way. Without
premeditation I placed it at the other end of the room on the floor, in
a corner where there was but little light. It was a dozen yards away
from the window.

The result of these preparations entirely upset my preconceived ideas.
None of the arrivals stopped at the bell-glass, where the female was
plainly to be seen, the light falling full upon her prison. Not a
glance, not an inquiry. They all flew to the further end of the room,
into the dark corner where I had placed the tray and the empty
dish-cover.

They alighted on the wire dome, explored it persistently, beating their
wings and jostling one another. All the afternoon, until sunset, the
moths danced about the empty cage the same saraband that the actual
presence of the female had previously evoked. Finally they departed: not
all, for there were some that would not go, held by some magical
attractive force.

Truly a strange result! The moths collected where there was apparently
nothing to attract them, and remained there, unpersuaded by the sense of
sight; they passed the bell-glass actually containing the female without
halting for a moment, although she must have been seen by many of the
moths both going and coming. Maddened by a lure, they paid no attention
to the reality.

What was the lure that so deceived them? All the preceding night and all
the morning the female had remained under the wire-gauze cover;
sometimes clinging to the wire-work, sometimes resting on the sand in
the tray. Whatever she touched--above all, apparently, with her
distended abdomen--was impregnated, as a result of long contact, with a
certain emanation. This was her lure, her love-philtre; this it was that
revolutionised the Oak Eggar world. The sand retained it for some time
and diffused the effluvium in turn.

They passed by the glass prison in which the female was then confined
and hastened to the meshes of wire and the sand on which the magic
philtre had been poured; they crowded round the deserted chamber where
nothing of the magician remained but the odorous testimony of her
sojourn.

The irresistible philtre requires time for its elaboration. I conceive
of it as an exhalation which is given off during courtship and gradually
saturates whatever is in contact with the motionless body of the female.
If the bell-glass was placed directly on the table, or, still better, on
a square of glass, the communication between the inside and the outside
was insufficient, and the males, perceiving no odour, did not arrive so
long as that condition of things obtained. It was plain that this
failure of transmission was not due to the action of the glass as a
screen simply, for if I established a free communication between the
interior of the bell-glass and the open air by supporting it on three
small blocks, the moths did not collect round it at once, although there
were plenty in the room; but in the course of half an hour or so the
feminine alembic began to operate, and the visitors crowded round the
bell-glass as usual.

In possession of these data and this unexpected enlightenment I varied
the experiments, but all pointed to the same conclusion. In the morning
I established the female under the usual wire-gauze cover. For support I
gave her a little twig of oak as before. There, motionless as if dead,
she crouched for hours, half buried in the dry leaves, which would thus
become impregnated with her emanations.

When the hour of the daily visits drew near I removed the twig, which
was by then thoroughly saturated with the emanations, and laid it on a
chair not far from the open window. On the other hand I left the female
under the cover, plainly exposed on the table in the middle of the room.

The moths arrived as usual: first one, then two, then three, and
presently five and six. They entered, flew out again, re-entered,
mounted, descended, came and went, always in the neighbourhood of the
window, not far from which was the chair on which the twig lay. None
made for the large table, on which, a few steps further from the window,
the female awaited them in the wire-gauze cover. They hesitated, that
was plain; they were still seeking.

Finally they found. And what did they find? Simply the twig, which that
morning had served the ample matron as bed. Their wings rapidly
fluttering, they alighted on the foliage; they explored it over and
under, probed it, raised it, and displaced it so that the twig finally
fell to the floor. None the less they continued to probe between the
leaves. Under the buffets and the draught of their wings and the
clutches of their eager feet the little bundle of leaves ran along the
floor like a scrap of paper patted by the paws of a cat.

While the twig was sliding away with its band of investigators two new
arrivals appeared. The chair lay in their path. They stopped at it and
searched eagerly at the very spot on which the twig had been lying. But
with these, as with the others, the real object of their desires was
there, close by, under a wire cover which was not even veiled. None took
any note of it. On the floor, a handful of butterflies were still
hustling the bunch of leaves on which the female had reposed that
morning; others, on the chair, were still examining the spot where the
twig had lain. The sun sank, and the hour of departure struck. Moreover,
the emanations were growing feebler, were evaporating. Without more ado
the visitors left. We bade them goodbye till the morrow.

The following tests showed me that the leaf-covered twig which
accidentally enlightened me might be replaced by any other substance.
Some time before the visitors were expected I placed the female on a bed
of cloth or flannel, card or paper. I even subjected her to the rigours
of a camp-bed of wood, glass, marble, and metal. All these objects,
after a contact of sufficient duration, had the same attraction for the
males as the female moth herself. They retained this property for a
longer or shorter time, according to their nature. Cardboard, flannel,
dust, sand, and porous objects retained it longest. Metals, marble, and
glass, on the contrary, quickly lost their efficacy. Finally, anything
on which the female had rested communicated its virtues by contact;
witness the butterflies crowding on the straw-bottomed chair after the
twig fell to the ground.

Using one of the most favourable materials--flannel, for example--I
witnessed a curious sight. I placed a morsel of flannel on which the
mother moth had been lying all the morning at the bottom of a long
test-tube or narrow-necked bottle, just permitting of the passage of a
male moth. The visitors entered the vessels, struggled, and did not know
how to extricate themselves. I had devised a trap by means of which I
could exterminate the tribe. Delivering the prisoners, and removing the
flannel, which I placed in a perfectly closed box, I found that they
re-entered the trap; attracted by the effluvia that the flannel had
communicated to the glass.

I was now convinced. To call the moths of the countryside to the
wedding-feast, to warn them at a distance and to guide them the nubile
female emits an odour of extreme subtlety, imperceptible to our own
olfactory sense-organs. Even with their noses touching the moth, none of
my household has been able to perceive the faintest odour; not even the
youngest, whose sensibility is as yet unvitiated.

This scent readily impregnates any object on which the female rests for
any length of time, when this object becomes a centre of attraction as
active as the moth herself until the effluvium is evaporated.

Nothing visible betrays the lure. On a sheet of paper, a recent
resting-place, around which the visitors had crowded, there was no
visible trace, no moisture; the surface was as clean as before the
impregnation.

The product is elaborated slowly, and must accumulate a little before it
reveals its full power. Taken from her couch and placed elsewhere the
female loses her attractiveness for the moment and is an object of
indifference; it is to the resting-place, saturated by long contact,
that the arrivals fly. But the female soon regains her power.

The emission of the warning effluvium is more or less delayed according
to the species. The recently metamorphosed female must mature a little
and her organs must settle to their work. Born in the morning, the
female of the Great Peacock moth sometimes has visitors the night of the
same day; but more often on the second day, after a preparation of forty
hours or so. The Oak Eggar does not publish her banns of marriage before
the third or fourth day.

Let us return for a moment to the problematical function of the antennæ.
The male Oak Eggar has a sumptuous pair, as has the Great Peacock or
Emperor Moth. Are we to regard these silky "feelers" as a kind of
directing compass?--I resumed, but without attaching much importance to
the matter, my previous experiment of amputation. None of those operated
on returned. Do not let us draw conclusions from that fact alone. We saw
in the case of the Great Peacock that more serious reasons than the
truncation of the antennæ made return as a rule impossible.

Moreover, a second Bombyx or Eggar, the Clover Moth, very like the Oak
Eggar, and like it superbly plumed, poses us a very difficult problem.
It is fairly abundant around my home; even in the orchard I find its
cocoon, which is easily confounded with that of the Oak Eggar. I was at
first deceived by the resemblance. From six cocoons, which I expected to
yield Oak Eggars, I obtained, about the end of August, six females of
the other species. Well: about these six females, born in my house,
never a male appeared, although they were undoubtedly present in the
neighbourhood.

If the ample and feathery antennæ are truly sense-organs, which receive
information of distant objects, why were not my richly plumed neighbours
aware of what was passing in my study? Why did their feathery "feelers"
leave them in ignorance of events which would have brought flocks of the
other Eggar? Once more, the organ does not determine the aptitude. One
individual or species is gifted, but another is not, despite an organic
equality.






In the matter of physics we hear of nothing to-day but the Röntgen rays,
which penetrate opaque bodies and photograph the invisible. A splendid
discovery; but nothing very remarkable as compared with the surprises
reserved for us by the future, when, better instructed as to the why and
wherefore of things than now, and supplementing our feeble senses by
means of science, we shall succeed in rivalling, however imperfectly,
the sensorial acuteness of the lower animals.

How enviable, in how many cases, is the superiority of the beasts! It
makes us realise the insufficiency of our impressions, and the very
indifferent efficacy of our sense-organs; it proclaims realities which
amaze us, so far are they beyond our own attributes.

A miserable caterpillar, the Processional caterpillar, found on the
pine-tree, has its back covered with meteorological spiracles which
sense the coming weather and foretell the storm; the bird of prey, that
incomparable watchman, sees the fallen mule from the heights of the
clouds; the blind bats guided their flight without collision through the
inextricable labyrinth of threads devised by Spallanzani; the carrier
pigeon, at a hundred leagues from home, infallibly regains its loft
across immensities which it has never known; and within the limits of
its more modest powers a bee, the Chalicodoma, also adventures into the
unknown, accomplishing its long journey and returning to its group of
cells.

Those who have never seen a dog seeking truffles have missed one of the
finest achievements of the olfactory sense. Absorbed in his duties, the
animal goes forward, scenting the wind, at a moderate pace. He stops,
questions the soil with his nostrils, and, without excitement, scratches
the earth a few times with one paw. "There it is, master!" his eyes seem
to say: "there it is! On the faith of a dog, there are truffles here!"

He says truly. The master digs at the point indicated. If the spade goes
astray the dog corrects the digger, sniffing at the bottom of the hole.
Have no fear that stones and roots will confuse him; in spite of depth
and obstacles, the truffle will be found. A dog's nose cannot lie.

I have referred to the dog's speciality as a subtle sense of smell. That
is certainly what I mean, if you will understand by that that the nasal
passages of the animal are the seat of the perceptive organ; but is the
thing perceived always a simple smell in the vulgar acceptation of the
term--an effluvium such as our own senses perceive? I have certain
reasons for doubting this, which I will proceed to relate.

On various occasions I have had the good fortune to accompany a
truffle-dog of first-class capacities on his rounds. Certainly there was
not much outside show about him, this artist that I so desired to see at
work; a dog of doubtful breed, placid and meditative; uncouth,
ungroomed, and quite inadmissible to the intimacies of the hearthrug.
Talent and poverty are often mated.

His master, a celebrated _rabassier_[5] of the village, being convinced
that my object was not to steal his professional secrets, and so sooner
or later to set up in business as a competitor, admitted me of his
company, a favour of which he was not prodigal. From the moment of his
regarding me not as an apprentice, but merely as a curious spectator,
who drew and wrote about subterranean vegetable affairs, but had no wish
to carry to market my bagful of these glories of the Christmas goose,
the excellent man lent himself generously to my designs.

It was agreed between us that the dog should act according to his own
instincts, receiving the customary reward, after each discovery, no
matter what its size, of a crust of bread the size of a finger-nail.
Every spot scratched by his paw should be excavated, and the object
indicated was to be extracted without reference to its marketable value.
In no case was the experience of the master to intervene in order to
divert the dog from a spot where the general aspect of things indicated
that no commercial results need be expected, for I was more concerned
with the miserable specimens unfit for the market than with the choice
specimens, though of course the latter were welcomed.

Thus conducted, this subterranean botanising was extremely fruitful.
With that perspicacious nose of his the dog obtained for me both large
and small, fresh and putrid, odorous and inodorous, fragrant and
offensive. I was amazed at my collection, which comprised the greater
number of the hypogenous fungi of the neighbourhood.

What a variety of structure, and above all of odour, the primordial
quality in this question of scent! There were some that had no
appreciable scent beyond a vague fungoid flavour, more or less common to
all. Others smelt of turnips, of sour cabbage; some were fetid,
sufficiently so to make the house of the collector noisome. Only the
true truffle possessed the aroma dear to epicures. If odour, as we
understand it, is the dog's only guide, how does he manage to follow
that guide amidst all these totally different odours? Is he warned of
the contents of the subsoil by a general emanation, by that fungoid
effluvium common to all the species? Thus a somewhat embarrassing
question arises.

I paid special attention to the ordinary toadstools and mushrooms, which
announced their near advent by cracking the surface of the soil. Now
these points, where my eyes divined the cryptogam pushing back the soil
with its button-like heads, these points, where the ordinary fungoid
odour was certainly very pronounced, were never selected by the dog. He
passed them disdainfully, without a sniff, without a stroke of the paw.
Yet the fungi were underground, and their odour was similar to that I
have already referred to.

I came back from my outings with the conviction that the truffle-finding
nose has some better guide than odour such as we with our sense-organs
conceive it. It must perceive effluvia of another order as well;
entirely mysterious to us, and therefore not utilised. Light has its
dark rays--rays without effect upon our retinas, but not apparently on
all. Why should not the domain of smell have its secret emanations,
unknown to our senses and perceptible to a different sense-organ?

If the scent of the dog leaves us perplexed in the sense that we cannot
possibly say precisely, cannot even suspect what it is that the dog
perceives, at least it is clear that it would be erroneous to refer
everything to human standards. The world of sensations is far larger
than the limits of our own sensibility. What numbers of facts relating
to the interplay of natural forces must escape us for want of
sufficiently sensitive organs!

The unknown--that inexhaustible field in which the men of the future
will try their strength--has harvests in store for us beside which our
present knowledge would show as no more than a wretched gleaning. Under
the sickle of science will one day fall the sheaves whose grain would
appear to-day as senseless paradoxes. Scientific dreams? No, if you
please, but undeniable positive realities, affirmed by the brute
creation, which in certain respects has so great an advantage over us.

Despite his long practice of his calling, despite the scent of the
object he was seeking, the _rabassier_ could not divine the presence of
the truffle, which ripens in winter under the soil, at a depth of a foot
or two; he must have the help of a dog or a pig, whose scent is able to
discover the secrets of the soil. These secrets are known to various
insects even better than to our two auxiliaries. They have in
exceptional perfection the power of discovering the tubers on which
their larvæ are nourished.

From truffles dug up in a spoiled condition, peopled with vermin, and
placed in that condition, with a bed of fresh sand, in a glass jar, I
have in the past obtained a small red beetle, known as the
truffle-beetle (_Anisotoma cinnamomea_, Panz.), and various Diptera,
among which is a Sapromyzon which, by its sluggish flight and its
fragile form, recalls the _Scatophaga scybalaria_, the yellow velvety
fly which is found in human excrement in the autumn. The latter finds
its refuge on the surface of the soil, at the foot of a wall or hedge or
under a bush; but how does the former know just where the truffle lies
under the soil, or at what depth? To penetrate to that depth, or to seek
in the subsoil, is impossible. Its fragile limbs, barely able to move a
grain of sand, its extended wings, which would bar all progress in a
narrow passage, and its costume of bristling silken pile, which would
prevent it from slipping through crevices, all make such a task
impossible. The Sapromyzon is forced to lay its eggs on the surface of
the soil, but it does so on the precise spot which overlies the truffle,
for the grubs would perish if they had to wander at random in search of
their provender, the truffle being always thinly sown.

The truffle fly is informed by the sense of smell of the points
favourable to its maternal plans; it has the talents of the truffle-dog,
and doubtless in a higher degree, for it knows naturally, without having
been taught, what its rival only acquires through an artificial
education.

It would be not uninteresting to follow the Sapromyzon in its search in
the open woods. Such a feat did not strike me as particularly possible;
the insect is rare, flies off quickly when alarmed, and is lost to
view. To observe it closely under such conditions would mean a loss of
time and an assiduity of which I do not feel capable. Another
truffle-hunter will show us what we could hardly learn from the fly.

This is a pretty little black beetle, with a pale, velvety abdomen; a
spherical insect, as large as a biggish cherry-stone. Its official title
is _Bolboceras gallicus_, Muls. By rubbing the end of the abdomen
against the edge of the wing-cases it produces a gentle chirping sound
like the cheeping of nestlings when the mother-bird returns to the nest
with food. The male wears a graceful horn on his head; a duplicate, in
little, of that of the _Copris hispanus_.

Deceived by this horn, I at first took the insect for a member of the
corporation of dung-beetles, and as such I reared it in captivity. I
offered it the kind of diet most appreciated by its supposed relatives,
but never, never would it touch such food. For whom did I take it? Fie
upon me! To offer ordure to an epicure! It required, if not precisely
the truffle known to our _chefs_ and _gourmets_, at least its
equivalent.

This characteristic I grasped only after patient investigation. At the
southern foot of the hills of Sérignan, not far from the village, is a
wood of maritime pines alternating with rows of cypress. There, towards
Toussaint, after the autumnal rains, you may find an abundance of the
mushrooms or "toadstools" that affect the conifers; especially the
delicious Lactaris, which turns green if the points are rubbed and drips
blood if broken. In the warm days of autumn this is the favourite
promenade of the members of my household, being distant enough to
exercise their young legs, but near enough not to fatigue them.

There one finds and sees all manner of things: old magpies' nests, great
bundles of twigs; jays, wrangling after filling their crops with the
acorns of the neighbouring oaks; rabbits, whose little white upturned
scuts go bobbing away through the rosemary bushes; dung-beetles, which
are storing food for the winter and throwing up their rubbish on the
threshold of their burrows. And then the fine sand, soft to the touch,
easily tunnelled, easily excavated or built into tiny huts which we
thatch with moss and surmount with the end of a reed for a chimney; and
the delicious meal of apples, and the sound of the æolian harps which
softly whisper among the boughs of the pines!

For the children it is a real paradise, where they can receive the
reward of well-learned lessons. The grown-ups also can share in the
enjoyment. As for myself, for long years I have watched two insects
which are found there without getting to the bottom of their domestic
secrets. One is the _Minotaurus typhæus_, whose male carries on his
corselet three spines which point forward. The old writers called him
the Phalangist, on account of his armour, which is comparable to the
three ranks of lances of the Macedonian phalanx.

This is a robust creature, heedless of the winter. All during the cold
season, whenever the weather relents a little, it issues discreetly from
its lodging, at nightfall, and gathers, in the immediate neighbourhood
of its dwelling, a few fragments of sheep-dung and ancient olives which
the summer suns have dried. It stacks them in a row at the end of its
burrow, closes the door, and consumes them. When the food is broken up
and exhausted of its meagre juices it returns to the surface and renews
its store. Thus the winter passes, famine being unknown unless the
weather is exceptionally hard.

The second insect which I have observed for so long among the pines is
the Bolboceras. Its burrows, scattered here and there, higgledy-piggledy
with those of the Minotaur, are easy to recognise. The burrow of the
Phalangist is surmounted by a voluminous rubbish-dump, the materials of
which are piled in the form of a cylinder as long as the finger. Each of
these dumps is a load of refuse and rubbish pushed outward by the little
sapper, which shoulders it up from below. The orifice is closed whenever
the insect is at home, enlarging its tunnel or peacefully enjoying the
contents of its larder.

The lodging of the Bolboceras is open and surrounded simply by a mound
of sand. Its depth is not great; a foot or hardly more. It descends
vertically in an easily shifted soil. It is therefore easy to inspect
it, if we take care first of all to dig a trench so that the wall of the
burrow may be afterwards cut away, slice by slice, with the blade of a
knife. The burrow is thus laid bare along its whole extent, from the
surface to the bottom, until nothing remains of it but a
demi-cylindrical groove.

Often the violated dwelling is empty. The insect has departed in the
night, having finished its business there. It is a nomad, a
night-walker, which leaves its dwelling without regret and easily
acquires another. Often, on the other hand, the insect will be found at
the bottom of the burrow; sometimes a male, sometimes a female, but
always alone. The two sexes, equally zealous in excavating their
burrows, work apart without collaboration. This is no family mansion for
the rearing of offspring; it is a temporary dwelling, made by each
insect for its own benefit.

Sometimes the burrow contains nothing but the well-sinker surprised at
its work: sometimes--and not rarely--the hermit will be found embracing
a small subterranean fungus, entire or partly consumed. It presses it
convulsively to its bosom and will not be parted from it. This is the
insect's booty: its worldly wealth. Scattered crumbs inform us that we
have surprised the beetle at a feast.

Let us deprive the insect of its booty. We find a sort of irregular,
rugged, purse-like object, varying in size from the largeness of a pea
to that of a cherry. The exterior is reddish, covered with fine warts,
having an appearance not unlike shagreen; the interior, which has no
communication with the exterior, is smooth and white. The pores, ovoidal
and diaphanous, are contained, in groups of eight, in long capsules.
From these characteristics we recognise an underground cryptogam, known
to the botanists as _Hydnocystis arenaria_, and a relation of the
truffle.

This discovery begins to throw a light on the habits of the Bolboceras
and the cause of its burrows, so frequently renewed. In the calm of the
twilight the little truffle-hunter goes abroad, chirping softly to
encourage itself. It explores the soil, and interrogates it as to its
contents, exactly as does the truffle-gatherer's dog. The sense of smell
warns it that the desired object is beneath it, covered by a few inches
of sand. Certain of the precise point where the treasure lies, it sinks
a well vertically downwards, and infallibly reaches it. So long as there
is food left it does not again leave the burrow. It feasts happily at
the bottom of its well, heedless of the open or imperfectly closed
burrow.

When no more food is left it removes in search of further booty, which
becomes the occasion of another burrow, this too in its turn to be
abandoned. So many truffles eaten necessitate so many burrows, which are
mere dining-rooms or pilgrim's larders. Thus pass the autumn and the
spring, the seasons of the _Hydnocystis_, in the pleasures of the table
and removal from one house to another.

To study the insect _rabassier_ in my own house I had to obtain a small
store of its favourite food. To seek it myself, by digging at random,
would have resulted merely in waste of time; the little cryptogam is not
so common that I could hope to find it without a guide. The
truffle-hunter must have his dog; my guide should be the Bolboceras
itself. Behold me, then, a _rabassier_ of a kind hitherto unknown. I
have told my secret, although I fear my original teacher will laugh at
me if he ever hears of my singular form of competition.

The subterranean fungi grow only at certain points, but they are often
found in groups. Now, the beetle has passed this way; with its subtle
sense of smell it has recognised the ground as favourable; for its
burrows are numerous. Let us dig, then, in the neighbourhood of these
holes. The sign is reliable; in a few hours, thanks to the signs of the
Bolboceras, I obtain a handful of specimens of the _Hydnocystis_. It is
the first time I have ever found this fungus in the ground. Let us now
capture the insect--an easy matter, for we have only to excavate the
burrows.

The same evening I begin my experiments. A wide earthen pan is filled
with fresh sand which has been passed through a sieve. With the aid of a
stick the thickness of a finger I make six vertical holes in the sand:
they are conveniently far apart, and are eight inches in depth. A
_Hydnocystis_ is placed at the bottom of each; a fine straw is then
inserted, to show me the precise position later. Finally the six holes
are filled with sand which is beaten down so that all is firm. When the
surface is perfectly level, and everywhere the same, except for the six
straws, which mean nothing to the insect, I release my beetles, covering
them with a wire-gauze cover. They are eight in number.

At first I see nothing but the inevitable fatigue due to the incidents
of exhumation, transport, and confinement in a strange place. My exiles
try to escape: they climb the wire walls, and finally all take to earth
at the edge of their enclosure. Night comes, and all is quiet. Two hours
later I pay my prisoners a last visit. Three are still buried under a
thin layer of sand. The other five have sunk each a vertical well at the
very foot of the straws which indicate the position of the buried fungi.
Next morning the sixth straw has its burrow like the rest.

It is time to see what is happening underground. The sand is
methodically removed in vertical slices. At the bottom of each burrow is
a Bolboceras engaged in eating its truffle.

Let us repeat the experiment with the partly eaten fungi. The result is
the same. In one short night the food is divined under its covering of
sand and attained by means of a burrow which descends as straight as a
plumb-line to the point where the fungus lies. There has been no
hesitation, no trial excavations which have nearly discovered the object
of search. This is proved by the surface of the soil, which is
everywhere just as I left it when smoothing it down. The insect could
not make more directly for the objective if guided by the sense of
sight; it digs always at the foot of the straw, my private sign. The
truffle-dog, sniffing the ground in search of truffles, hardly attains
this degree of precision.

Does the _Hydnocystis_ possess a very keen odour, such as we should
expect to give an unmistakable warning to the senses of the consumer? By
no means. To our own sense of smell it is a neutral sort of object, with
no appreciable scent whatever. A little pebble taken from the soil would
affect our senses quite as strongly with its vague savour of fresh
earth. As a finder of underground fungi the Bolboceras is the rival of
the dog. It would be the superior of the dog if it could generalise; it
is, however, a rigid specialist, recognising nothing but the
_Hydnocystis_. No other fungus, to my knowledge, either attracts it or
induces it to dig.[6]

Both dog and beetle are very near the subsoil which they scrutinise; the
object they seek is at no great depth. At a greater depth neither dog
nor insect could perceive such subtle effluvia, nor even the odour of
the truffle. To attract insect or animal at a great distance powerful
odours are necessary, such as our grosser senses can perceive. Then the
exploiters of the odorous substance hasten from afar off and from all
directions.

If for purposes of study I require specimens of such insects as dissect
dead bodies I expose a dead mole to the sunlight in a distant corner of
my orchard. As soon as the creature is swollen with the gases of
putrefaction, and the fur commences to fall from the greenish skin, a
host of insects arrive--Silphidæ, Dermestes, Horn-beetles, and
Necrophori--of which not a single specimen could ever be obtained in my
garden or even in the neighbourhood without the use of such a bait.

They have been warned by the sense of smell, although far away in all
directions, while I myself can escape from the stench by recoiling a few
paces. In comparison with their sense of smell mine is miserable; but in
this case, both for me and for them, there is really what our language
calls an odour.

I can do still better with the flower of the Serpent Arum (_Arum
dracunculus_), so noteworthy both for its form and its incomparable
stench. Imagine a wide lanceolated blade of a vinous purple, some twenty
inches in length, which is twisted at the base into an ovoid purse about
the size of a hen's egg. Through the opening of this capsule rises the
central column, a long club of a livid green, surrounded at the base by
two rings, one of ovaries and the other of stamens. Such, briefly, is
the flower or rather the inflorescence of the Serpent Arum.

For two days it exhales a horrible stench of putrid flesh; a dead dog
could not produce such a terrible odour. Set free by the sun and the
wind, it is odious, intolerable. Let us brave the infected atmosphere
and approach; we shall witness a curious spectacle.

Warned by the stench, which travels far and wide, a host of insects are
flying hither; such insects as dissect the corpses of frogs, adders,
lizards, hedgehogs, moles and field-mice--creatures that the peasant
finds beneath his spade and throws disembowelled on the path. They fall
upon the great leaf, whose livid purple gives it the appearance of a
strip of putrid flesh; they dance with impatience, intoxicated by the
corpse-like odour which to them is so delicious; they roll down its
steep face and are engulfed in the capsule. After a few hours of hot
sunlight the receptacle is full.

Let us look into the capsule through the narrow opening. Nowhere else
could you see such a mob of insects. It is a delirious mixture of backs
and bellies, wing-covers and legs, which swarms and rolls upon itself,
rising and falling, seething and boiling, shaken by continual
convulsions, clicking and squeaking with a sound of entangled
articulations. It is a bacchanal, a general access of delirium tremens.

A few, but only a few, emerge from the mass. By the central mast or the
walls of the purse they climb to the opening. Do they wish to take
flight and escape? By no means. On the threshold of the cavity, while
already almost at liberty, they allow themselves to fall into the
whirlpool, retaken by their madness. The lure is irresistible. None will
break free from the swarm until the evening, or perhaps the next day,
when the heady fumes will have evaporated. Then the units of the swarm
disengage themselves from their mutual embraces, and slowly, as though
regretfully, take flight and depart. At the bottom of this devil's purse
remains a heap of the dead and dying, of severed limbs and wing-covers
torn off; the inevitable sequels of the frantic orgy. Soon the woodlice,
earwigs, and ants will appear to prey upon the injured.

What are these insects doing? Were they the prisoners of the flower,
converted into a trap which allowed them to enter but prevented their
escape by means of a palisade of converging hairs? No, they were not
prisoners; they had full liberty to escape, as is proved by the final
exodus, which is in no way impeded. Deceived by a fallacious odour, were
they endeavouring to lay and establish their eggs as they would have
done under the shelter of a corpse? No; there is no trace of eggs in the
purse of the Arum. They came convoked by the odour of a decaying body,
their supreme delight; an intoxication seized them, and they rushed into
the eddying swarm to take part in a festival of carrion-eaters.

I was anxious to count the number of those attracted. At the height of
the bacchanal I emptied the purse into a bottle. Intoxicated as they
were, many would escape my census, and I wished to ensure its accuracy.
A few drops of carbon bisulphide quieted the swarm. The census proved
that there were more than four hundred insects in the purse of the Arum.
The collection consisted entirely of two species--Dermestes and
Saprinidæ--both eager prospectors of carrion and animal detritus during
the spring.

My friend Bull, an honest dog all his lifetime if ever there was one,
amongst other eccentricities had the following: finding in the dust of
the road the shrivelled body of a mole, flattened by the feet of
pedestrians, mummified by the heat of the sun, he would slide himself
over it, from the tip of his nose to the root of his tail, he would rub
himself against it deliciously over and over again, shaken with nervous
spasms, and roll upon it first in one direction, then in the other.

It was his sachet of musk, his flask of eau-de-Cologne. Perfumed to his
liking, he would rise, shake himself, and proceed on his way, delighted
with his toilet. Do not let us scold him, and above all do not let us
discuss the matter. There are all kinds of tastes in a world.

Why should there not be insects with similar habits among the amateurs
of corpse-like savours? We see Dermestes and Saprinidæ hastening to the
arum-flower. All day long they writhe and wriggle in a swarm, although
perfectly free to escape; numbers perish in the tumultuous orgy. They
are not retained by the desire of food, for the arum provides them with
nothing eatable; they do not come to breed, for they take care not to
establish their grubs in that place of famine. What are these frenzied
creatures doing? Apparently they are intoxicated with fetidity, as was
Bull when he rolled on the putrid body of a mole.

This intoxication draws them from all parts of the neighbourhood,
perhaps over considerable distances; how far we do not know. The
Necrophori, in quest of a place where to establish their family, travel
great distances to find the corpses of small animals, informed by such
odours as offend our own senses at a considerable distance.

The _Hydnocystis_, the food of the Bolboceras, emits no such brutal
emanations as these, which readily diffuse themselves through space; it
is inodorous, at least to our senses. The insect which seeks it does not
come from a distance; it inhabits the places wherein the cryptogam is
found. Faint as are the effluvia of this subterranean fungus, the
prospecting epicure, being specially equipped, perceives them with the
greatest ease; but then he operates at close range, from the surface of
the soil. The truffle-dog is in the same case; he searches with his nose
to the ground. The true truffle, however, the essential object of his
search, possesses a fairly vivid odour.

But what are we to say of the Great Peacock moth and the Oak Eggar, both
of which find their captive female? They come from the confines of the
horizon. What do they perceive at that distance? Is it really an odour
such as we perceive and understand? I cannot bring myself to believe it.

The dog finds the truffle by smelling the earth quite close to the
tuber; but he finds his master at great distances by following his
footsteps, which he recognises by their scent. Yet can he find the
truffle at a hundred yards? or his master, in the complete absence of a
trail? No. With all his fineness of scent, the dog is incapable of such
feats as are realised by the moth, which is embarrassed neither by
distance nor the absence of a trail.

It is admitted that odour, such as affects our olfactory sense, consists
of molecules emanating from the body whose odour is perceived. The
odorous material becomes diffused through the air to which it
communicates its agreeable or disagreeable aroma. Odour and taste are to
a certain extent the same; in both there is contact between the material
particles causing the impression and the sensitive papillæ affected by
the impression.

That the Serpent Arum should elaborate a powerful essence which
impregnates the atmosphere and makes it noisome is perfectly simple and
comprehensible. Thus the Dermestes and Saprinidæ, those lovers of
corpse-like odours, are warned by molecular diffusion. In the same way
the putrid frog emits and disseminates around it atoms of putrescence
which travel to a considerable distance and so attract and delight the
Necrophorus, the carrion-beetle.

But in the case of the Great Peacock or the Oak Eggar, what molecules
are actually disengaged? None, according to our sense of smell. And yet
this lure, to which the males hasten so speedily, must saturate with its
molecules an enormous hemisphere of air--a hemisphere some miles in
diameter! What the atrocious fetor of the Arum cannot do the absence of
odour accomplishes! However divisible matter may be, the mind refuses
such conclusions. It would be to redden a lake with a grain of carmine;
to fill space with a mere nothing.

Moreover, where my laboratory was previously saturated with powerful
odours which should have overcome and annihilated any particularly
delicate effluvium, the male moths arrived without the least indication
of confusion or delay.

A loud noise stifles a feeble note and prevents it from being heard; a
brilliant light eclipses a feeble glimmer. Heavy waves overcome and
obliterate ripples. In the two cases cited we have waves of the same
nature. But a clap of thunder does not diminish the feeblest jet of
light; the dazzling glory of the sun will not muffle the slightest
sound. Of different natures, light and sound do not mutually interact.

My experiment with spike-lavender, naphthaline, and other odours seems
to prove that odour proceeds from two sources. For emission substitute
undulation, and the problem of the Great Peacock moth is explained.
Without any material emanation a luminous point shakes the ether with
its vibrations and fills with light a sphere of indefinite magnitude.
So, or in some such manner, must the warning effluvium of the mother Oak
Eggar operate. The moth does not emit molecules; but something about it
vibrates, causing waves capable of propagation to distances incompatible
with an actual diffusion of matter.

From this point of view, smell would have two domains--that of particles
dissolved in the air and that of etheric waves.[7] The former domain
alone is known to us. It is also known to the insect. It is this that
warns the Saprinidæ of the fetid arum, the Silphidæ and the Necrophori
of the putrid mole.

The second category of odour, far superior in its action through space,
escapes us completely, because we lack the essential sensory equipment.
The Great Peacock moth and the Oak Eggar know it at the time of their
nuptial festivities. Many others must share it in differing degrees,
according to the exigencies of their way of life.

Like light, odour has its X-rays. Let science, instructed by the insect,
one day give us a radiograph sensitive to odours, and this artificial
nose will open a new world of marvels.






Some of our machines have extraordinary-looking mechanisms, which remain
inexplicable so long as they are seen in repose. But wait until the
whole is in motion; then the uncouth-looking contrivance, with its
cog-wheels interacting and its connecting-rods oscillating, will reveal
the ingenious combination in which all things are skilfully disposed to
produce the desired effects. It is the same with certain insects; with
certain weevils, for instance, and notably with the Acorn-beetles or
Balanini, which are adapted, as their name denotes, to the exploitation
of acorns, nuts, and other similar fruits.

The most remarkable, in my part of France, is the Acorn Elephant
(_Balaninus elephas_, Sch.). It is well named; the very name evokes a
mental picture of the insect. It is a living caricature, this beetle
with the prodigious snout. The latter is no thicker than a horsehair,
reddish in colour, almost rectilinear, and of such length that in order
not to stumble the insect is forced to carry it stiffly outstretched
like a lance in rest. What is the use of this embarrassing pike, this
ridiculous snout?

Here I can see some reader shrug his shoulders. Well, if the only end of
life is to make money by hook or by crook, such questions are certainly
ridiculous.

Happily there are some to whom nothing in the majestic riddle of the
universe is little. They know of what humble materials the bread of
thought is kneaded; a nutriment no less necessary than the bread made
from wheat; and they know that both labourers and inquirers nourish the
world with an accumulation of crumbs.

Let us take pity on the question, and proceed. Without seeing it at
work, we already suspect that the fantastic beak of the Balaninus is a
drill analogous to those which we ourselves use in order to perforate
hard materials. Two diamond-points, the mandibles, form the terminal
armature of the drill. Like the Larinidæ, but under conditions of
greater difficulty, the Curculionidæ must use the implement in order to
prepare the way for the installation of their eggs.

But however well founded our suspicion may be, it is not a certitude. I
can only discover the secret by watching the insect at work.

Chance, the servant of those that patiently solicit it, grants me a
sight of the acorn-beetle at work, in the earlier half of October. My
surprise is great, for at this late season all industrial activity is as
a rule at an end. The first touch of cold and the entomological season
is over.

To-day, moreover, it is wild weather; the _bise_ is moaning, glacial,
cracking one's lips. One needs a robust faith to go out on such a day in
order to inspect the thickets. Yet if the beetle with the long beak
exploits the acorns, as I think it does, the time presses if I am to
catch it at its work. The acorns, still green, have acquired their full
growth. In two or three weeks they will attain the chestnut brown of
perfect maturity, quickly followed by their fall.

My seemingly futile pilgrimage ends in success. On the evergreen oaks I
surprise a Balaninus with the trunk half sunk in an acorn. Careful
observation is impossible while the branches are shaken by the
_mistral_. I detach the twig and lay it gently upon the ground. The
insect takes no notice of its removal; it continues its work. I crouch
beside it, sheltered from the storm behind a mass of underwood, and
watch operations.

Shod with adhesive sandals which later on, in my laboratory, will allow
it rapidly to climb a vertical sheet of glass, the elephant-beetle is
solidly established on the smooth, steep curvature of the acorn. It is
working its drill. Slowly and awkwardly it moves around its implanted
weapon, describing a semicircle whose centre is the point of the drill,
and then another semicircle in the reverse direction. This is repeated
over and over again; the movement, in short, is identical with that we
give to a bradawl when boring a hole in a plank.

Little by little the rostrum sinks into the acorn. At the end of an hour
it has entirely disappeared. A short period of repose follows, and
finally the instrument is withdrawn. What is going to happen next?
Nothing on this occasion. The Balaninus abandons its work and solemnly
retires, disappearing among the withered leaves. For the day there is
nothing more to be learned.

But my interest is now awakened. On calm days, more favourable to the
entomologist, I return to the woods, and I soon have sufficient insects
to people my laboratory cages. Foreseeing a serious difficulty in the
slowness with which the beetle labours, I prefer to study them indoors,
with the unlimited leisure only to be found in one's own home.

The precaution is fortunate. If I had tried to continue as I began, and
to observe the Balaninus in the liberty of the woods, I should never,
even with the greatest good fortune, have had the patience to follow to
the end the choice of the acorn, the boring of the hole, and the laying
of the eggs, so meticulously deliberate is the insect in all its
affairs; as the reader will soon be able to judge.

Three species of oak-tree compose the copse inhabited by the Balaninus:
the evergreen oak and the pubescent oak, which would become fine trees
if the woodman would give them time, and the kermes oak, a mere scrubby
bush. The first species, which is the most abundant of the three, is
that preferred by the Balaninus. The acorn is firm, elongated, and of
moderate size; the cup is covered with little warts. The acorns of the
pubescent oak are usually stunted, short, wrinkled, and fluted, and
subject to premature fall. The aridity of the hills of Sérignan is
unfavourable to them. The Acorn-beetles accept them only in default of
something better.

The kermes, a dwarf oak, a ridiculous tree which a man can jump over,
surprises me by the wealth of its acorns, which are large, ovoidal
growths, the cup being covered with scales. The Balaninus could not make
a better choice; the acorn affords a safe, strong dwelling and a
capacious storehouse of food.

A few twigs from these three trees, well provided with acorns, are
arranged under the domes of some of my wire-gauze covers, the ends being
plunged into a glass of water which will keep them fresh. A suitable
number of couples are then introduced into the cages; and the latter are
placed at the windows of my study, where they obtain the direct sunlight
for the greater part of the day. Let us now arm ourselves with patience,
and keep a constant watch upon events. We shall be rewarded; the
exploitation of the acorn deserves to be seen.

Matters do not drag on for very long. Two days after these preparations
I arrive at the precise moment when the task is commenced. The mother,
larger than the male, and equipped with a longer drill, is inspecting
her acorn, doubtless with a view to depositing her eggs.

She goes over it step by step, from the point to the stem, both above
and below. On the warty cup progression is easy; over the rest of the
surface it would be impossible, were not the soles of her feet shod with
adhesive pads, which enable her to retain her hold in any position.
Without the least uncertainty of footing, the insect walks with equal
facility over the top or bottom or up the sides of the slippery fruit.

The choice is made; the acorn is recognised as being of good quality.
The time has come to sink the hole. On account of its excessive length
it is not easy to manoeuvre the beak. To obtain the best mechanical
effect the instrument must be applied perpendicularly to the convex
surface of the acorn, and the embarrassing implement which is carried in
front of the insect when the latter is not at work must now be held in
such a position as to be beneath the worker.

To obtain this result the insect rears herself upon her hind legs,
supporting herself upon the tripod formed by the end of the wing-covers
and the posterior tarsi. It would be hard to imagine anything more
curious than this little carpenter, as she stands upright and brings her
nasal bradawl down towards her body.

Now the drill is held plumb against the surface, and the boring
commences. The method is that I witnessed in the wood on the day of the
storm. Very slowly the insect veers round from right to left, then from
left to right. Her drill is not a spiral gimlet which will sink itself
by a constant rotary motion; it is a bradawl, or rather a trochar, which
progresses by little bites, by alternative erosion, first in one
direction, then the other.

Before continuing, let me record an accident which is too striking to be
passed over. On various occasions I have found the insect dead in the
midst of its task. The body is in an extraordinary position, which would
be laughable if death were not always a serious thing, above all when it
comes suddenly, in the midst of labour.

The drill is implanted in the acorn just a little beyond the tip; the
work was only commenced. At the top of the drill, at right angles to it,
the Balaninus is suspended in the air, far from the supporting surface
of the acorn. It is dried, mummified, dead I know not how long. The legs
are rigid and contracted under the body. Even if they retained the
flexibility and the power of extension that were theirs in life, they
would fall far short of the surface of the acorn. What then has
happened, that this unhappy insect should be impaled like a specimen
beetle with a pin through its head?

An accident of the workshop is responsible. On account of the length of
its implement the beetle commences her work standing upright, supported
by the two hind-legs. Imagine a slip, a false step on the part of the
two adhesive feet; the unfortunate creature will immediately lose her
footing, dragged by the elasticity of the snout, which she was forced to
bend somewhat at the beginning. Torn away from her foothold, the
suspended insect vainly struggles in air; nowhere can her feet, those
safety anchors, find a hold. She starves at the end of her snout, for
lack of foothold whereby to extricate herself. Like the artisans in our
factories, the elephant-beetle is sometimes the victim of her tools. Let
us wish her good luck, and sure feet, careful not to slip, and proceed.

On this occasion all goes well, but so slowly that the descent of the
drill, even when amplified by the magnifying-glass, cannot be perceived.
The insect veers round perpetually, rests, and resumes her work. An hour
passes, two hours, wearying the observer by their sustained attention;
for I wish to witness the precise moment when the beetle withdraws her
drill, turns round, and deposits her egg in the mouth of the orifice.
This, at least, is how I foresee the event.

Two hours go by, exhausting my patience. I call the household to my aid.
Three of us take turns, keeping an uninterrupted watch upon the
persevering creature whose secret I intend at any cost to discover.


It was well that I called in helpers to lend me their eyes and their
attention. After eight hours--eight interminable hours, when it was
nearly night, the sentinel on the watch calls me. The insect appears to
have finished. She does, in fact, very cautiously withdraw her beak, as
though fearing to slip. Once the tool is withdrawn she holds it pointing
directly in front of her.

The moment has come.... Alas, no! Once more I am cheated; my eight hours
of observation have been fruitless. The Balaninus decamps; abandons her
acorn without laying her eggs. I was certainly right to distrust the
result of observation in the open woods. Such concentration among the
oaks, exposed to the sun, wind, and rain would have been an intolerable
task.

During the whole of October, with the aid of such helpers as are needed,
I remark a number of borings, not followed by the laying of eggs. The
duration of the observer's task varies greatly. It usually amounts to a
couple of hours; sometimes it exceeds half the day.

With what object are these perforations made, so laborious and yet so
often unused? Let us first of all discover the position of the egg, and
the first mouthfuls taken by the grub, and perhaps the reply will be
found.

The peopled acorns remain on the oak, held in their cups as though
nothing had occurred to the detriment of the cotyledons. With a little
attention they may be readily recognised. Not far from the cup, on the
smooth, still green envelope of the acorn a little point is visible; a
tiny needle-prick. A narrow brown aureole, the product of mortification,
is not long in appearing. This marks the opening of the hole. Sometimes,
but more rarely, the hole is drilled through the cup itself.

Let us select those acorns which have been recently perforated: that is
to say, those in which the perforation is not yet surrounded by the
brown ring which appears in course of time. Let us shell them. Many
contain nothing out of the way; the Balaninus has bored them but has not
laid her eggs in them. They resemble the acorns which for hours and
hours were drilled in my laboratory but not utilised. Many, on the
contrary, contain an egg.

Now however distant the entrance of the bore may be, this egg is always
at the bottom of the acorn, within the cup, at the base of the
cotyledonary matter. The cup furnishes a thin film like swan-skin which
imbibes the sapid exudations from the stem, the source of nourishment. I
have seen a young grub, hatched under my eyes, eat as his first
mouthfuls this tender cottony layer, which is moist and flavoured with
tannin.

Such nutriment, juicy and easy of digestion, like all nascent organic
matter, is only found in this particular spot; and it is only there,
between the cup and the base of the cotyledons, that the elephant-beetle
establishes her egg. The insect knows to a nicety the position of the
portions best adapted to the feeble stomach of the newly hatched larva.

Above this is the tougher nutriment of the cotyledons. Refreshed by its
first meal, the grub proceeds to attack this; not directly, but in the
tunnel bored by the mother, which is littered with tiny crumbs and
half-masticated shavings. With this light mealy diet the strength of the
grub increases, and it then plunges directly into the substance of the
acorn.

These data explain the tactics of the gravid mother. What is her object
when, before proceeding to sink her hole, she inspects her acorn, from
above, below, before and behind, with such meticulous care? She is
making sure that the acorn is not already occupied. The larder is amply
stored, but it does not contain enough for two. Never in fact, have I
found two larvæ in the same acorn. One only, always only one, digests
the copious meal and converts it into a greenish dust before leaving it
and descending to the ground. Only an insignificant shell remains
uneaten. The rule is, to each grub one acorn.

Before trusting the egg to the acorn it is therefore essential to
subject it to a thorough examination, to discover whether it already has
an occupant. This possible occupant would be at the base of the acorn,
under the cover of the cup. Nothing could be more secret than this
hiding-place. Not an eye could divine the inhabitant if the surface of
the acorn did not bear the mark of a tiny perforation.

This mark, just visible, is my guide. Its presence tells me that the
acorn is inhabited, or at least that it has been prepared for the
reception of the egg; its absence tells me that the acorn has not yet
been appropriated. The elephant-beetle undoubtedly draws the same
conclusions.

I see matters from on high, with a comprehensive glance, assisted at
will by the magnifying-glass. I turn the acorn between my fingers for a
moment, and the inspection is concluded. The beetle, investigating the
acorn at close quarters, is often obliged to scrutinise practically the
entire surface before detecting the tell-tale spot. Moreover, the
welfare of her family demands a far more careful search than does my
curiosity. This is the reason for her prolonged and deliberate
examination.

The search is concluded; the acorn is recognised as unoccupied. The
drill is applied to the surface and rotated for hours; then, very often,
the insect departs, disdaining the result of her work. Why such
protracted efforts? Was the beetle piercing the fruit merely to obtain
drink and refreshment? Was the beak thrust into the depths of the base
merely to obtain, from the choicer parts, a few sips of nutritious sap?
Was the whole undertaking merely a matter of personal nourishment?

At first I believed this to be the solution, though surprised at the
display of so much perseverance rewarded by the merest sip. The
behaviour of the males, however, forced me to abandon this idea. They
also possess the long beak, and could readily make such perforations if
they wished; yet I have never seen one take up his stand upon an acorn
and work at it with his augur. Then why this fruitless labour? A mere
nothing suffices these abstemious creatures. A superficial operation
performed upon the surface of a tender leaf yields them sufficient
sustenance.

If the males, the unoccupied males who have leisure to enjoy the
pleasures of the palate, ask no more than the sap of the leaf, how
should the mothers, busied with the affairs of the breeding-season, find
time to waste upon such dearly bought pleasures as the inner juices of
the acorn? No, the acorn is not perforated for the purpose of drinking
its juices. It is possible that once the beak is deeply sunk, the female
may take a mouthful or two, but it is certain that food and drink are
not the objects in view.

At last I begin to foresee the solution of the problem. The egg, as I
have said, is always at the base of the acorn, in the midst of a soft
cottony layer which is moistened by the sap which oozes from the stalk.
The grub, upon hatching out, being as yet incapable of attacking the
firm substance of the cotyledons, masticates the delicate felt-like
layer at the base of the cup and is nourished by its juices.

But as the acorn matures this layer becomes more solid in its
consistency. The soft tissues harden; the moist tissues dry up. There is
a period during which the acorn fulfils to perfection the conditions
most conducive to the welfare of the grub. At an earlier period matters
would not have reached the desired stage; at a later period the acorn
would be too mature.

The exterior of the acorn gives no indication whatever of the progress
of this internal cookery. In order not to inflict unsuitable food on the
grub, the mother beetle, not sufficiently informed by the look of the
acorn, is thus obliged to taste, at the end of her trunk, the tissues at
the base of the cup.

The nurse, before giving her charge a spoonful of broth, tests it by
tasting it. In the same way the mother beetle plunges her trunk into the
base of the cup, to test the contents before bestowing them upon her
offspring. If the food is recognised as being satisfactory the egg is
laid; if not, the perforation is abandoned without more ado. This
explains the perforations which serve no purpose, in spite of so much
labour; the tissues at the base of the cup, being carefully tested, are
not found to be in the required condition. The elephant-beetles are
difficult to please and take infinite pains when the first mouthful of
the grub is in question. To place the egg in a position where the
new-born grub will find light and juicy and easily digested nutriment is
not enough for those far-seeing mothers; their cares look beyond this
point. An intermediary period is desirable, which will lead the little
larva from the delicacies of its first hours to the diet of hard acorn.
This intermediary period is passed in the gallery, the work of the
maternal beak. There it finds the crumbs, the shavings bitten off by the
chisels of the rostrum. Moreover, the walls of the tunnel, which are
softened by mortification, are better suited than the rest of the acorn
to the tender mandibles of the larva.

Before setting to work on the cotyledons the grub does, in fact,
commence upon the contents and walls of this tiny passage. It first
consumes the shavings lying loose in the passage; it devours the brown
fragments adhering to the walls; finally, being now sufficiently
strengthened, it attacks the body of the acorn, plunges into it, and
disappears. The stomach is ready; the rest is a blissful feast.

This intermediary tunnel must be of a certain length, in order to
satisfy the needs of infancy, so the mother must labour at the work of
drilling. If the perforation were made solely with the purpose of
tasting the material at the base of the acorn and recognising its degree
of maturity, the operation might be very much shorter, since the hole
could be sunk through the cup itself from a point close to the base.
This fact is not unrecognised; I have on occasion found the insect
perforating the scaly cup.

In such a proceeding I see the attempt of a gravid mother pressed for
time to obtain prompt information. If the acorn is suitable the boring
will be recommenced at a more distant point, through the surface of the
acorn itself. When an egg is to be laid the rule is to bore the hole
from a point as distant as is practicable from the base--as far, in
short, as the length of the rostrum will permit.

What is the object of this long perforation, which often occupies more
than half the day? Why this tenacious perseverance when, not far from
the stalk, at the cost of much less time and fatigue, the rostrum could
attain the desired point--the living spring from which the new-born grub
is to drink? The mother has her own reasons for toiling in this manner;
in doing thus she still attains the necessary point, the base of the
acorn, and at the same time--a most valuable result--she prepares for
the grub a long tube of fine, easily digested meal.

But these are trivialities! Not so, if you please, but high and
important matters, speaking to us of the infinite pains which preside
over the preservation of the least of things; witnesses of a superior
logic which regulates the smallest details.

The Balaninus, so happily inspired as a mother, has her place in the
world and is worthy of notice. So, at least, thinks the blackbird, which
gladly makes a meal of the insect with the long beak when fruits grow
rare at the end of autumn. It makes a small mouthful, but a tasty, and
is a pleasant change after such olives as yet withstand the cold.

And what without the blackbird and its rivalry of song were the
reawakening of the woods in spring? Were man to disappear, annihilated
by his own foolish errors, the festival of the life-bringing season
would be no less worthily observed, celebrated by the fluting of the
yellow-billed songster.

To the meritorious rôle of regaling the blackbird, the minstrel of the
forest, the Balaninus adds another--that of moderating the superfluity
of vegetation. Like all the mighty who are worthy of their strength, the
oak is generous; it produces acorns by the bushel. What could the earth
do with such prodigality? The forest would stifle itself for want of
room; excess would ruin the necessary.

But no sooner is this abundance of food produced than there is an influx
from every side of consumers only too eager to abate this inordinate
production. The field-mouse, a native of the woods, stores acorns in a
gravel-heap near its hay-lined nest. A stranger, the jay, comes in
flocks from far away, warned I know not how. For some weeks it flies
feasting from oak to oak, giving vent to its joys and its emotions in a
voice like that of a strangling cat; then, its mission accomplished, it
returns to the North whence it came.

The Balaninus has anticipated them all. The mother confided her eggs to
the acorns while yet they were green. These have now fallen to earth,
brown before their time, and pierced by a round hole through which the
larva has escaped after devouring the contents. Under one single oak a
basket might easily be filled with these ruined shells. More than the
jay, more than the field-mouse, the elephant-beetle has contributed to
reduce the superfluity of acorns.

Presently man arrives, busied in the interest of his pig. In my village
it is quite an important event when the municipal hoardings announce the
day for opening the municipal woods for the gathering of acorns. The
more zealous visit the woods the day before and select the best places.
Next day, at daybreak, the whole family is there. The father beats the
upper branches with a pole; the mother, wearing a heavy hempen apron
which enables her to force her way through the stubborn undergrowth,
gathers those within reach of the hand, while the children collect those
scattered upon the ground. First the small baskets are filled, then the
big _corbeilles_, and then the sacks.

After the field-mouse, the jay, the weevil, and so many others have
taken toll comes man, calculating how many pounds of bacon-fat his
harvest will be worth. One regret mingles with the cheer of the
occasion; it is to see so many acorns scattered on the ground which are
pierced, spoiled, good for nothing. And man curses the author of this
destruction; to hear him you would think the forest is meant for him
alone, and that the oaks bear acorns only for the sake of his pig.

My friend, I would say to him, the forest guard cannot take legal
proceedings against the offender, and it is just as well, for our
egoism, which is inclined to see in the acorn only a garland of
sausages, would have annoying results. The oak calls the whole world to
enjoy its fruits. We take the larger part because we are the stronger.
That is our only right.

More important than our rights is the equitable division of the fruits
of the earth between the various consumers, great and little, all of
whom play their part in this world. If it is good that the blackbird
should flute and rejoice in the burgeoning of the spring, then it is no
bad thing that acorns should be worm-eaten. In the acorn the dessert of
the blackbird is prepared; the Balaninus, the tasty mouthful that puts
flesh upon his flanks and music into his throat.

Let the blackbird sing, and let us return to the eggs of the
Curculionidæ. We know where the egg is--at the base of the acorn,
because the tenderest and most juicy tissues of the fruit are there. But
how did it get there, so far from the point of entry? A very trifling
question, it is true; puerile even, if you will. Do not let us disdain
to ask it; science is made of these puerilities.

The first man to rub a piece of amber on his sleeve and to find that it
thereupon attracted fragments of chaff had certainly no vision of the
electric marvels of our days. He was amusing himself in a childlike
manner. Repeated, tested, and probed in every imaginable way, the
child's experiment has become one of the forces of the world.

The observer must neglect nothing; for he never knows what may develop
out of the humblest fact. So again we will ask: by what process did the
egg of the elephant-beetle reach a point so far from the orifice in the
acorn?

To one who was not already aware of the position of the egg, but knew
that the grub attacked the base of the acorn first, the solution of that
fact would be as follows: the egg is laid at the entrance of the tunnel,
at the surface, and the grub, crawling down the gallery sunk by the
mother, gains of its own accord this distant point where its infant diet
is to be found.

Before I had sufficient data this was my own belief; but the mistake was
soon exposed. I plucked an acorn just as the mother withdrew, after
having for a moment applied the tip of the abdomen to the orifice of the
passage just opened by her rostrum. The egg, so it seemed, must be
there, at the entrance of the passage.... But no, it was not! It was at
the other extremity of the passage! If I dared, I would say it had
dropped like a stone into a well.

That idea we must abandon at once; the passage is extremely narrow and
encumbered with shavings, so that such a thing would be impossible.
Moreover, according to the direction of the stem, accordingly as it
pointed upwards or downwards, the egg would have to fall downwards in
one acorn and upwards in another.

A second explanation suggests itself, not less perilous. It might be
said: "The cuckoo lays her egg on the grass, no matter where; she lifts
it in her beak and places it in the nearest appropriate nest." Might not
the Balaninus follow an analogous method? Does she employ the rostrum to
place the egg in its position at the base of the acorn? I cannot see
that the insect has any other implement capable of reaching this remote
hiding-place.

Nevertheless, we must hastily reject such an absurd explanation as a
last, desperate resort. The elephant-beetle certainly does not lay its
egg in the open and seize it in its beak. If it did so the delicate ovum
would certainly be destroyed, crushed in the attempt to thrust it down a
narrow passage half choked with debris.

This is very perplexing. My embarrassment will be shared by all readers
who are acquainted with the structure of the elephant-beetle. The
grasshopper has a sabre, an oviscapt which plunges into the earth and
sows the eggs at the desired depth; the Leuscopis has a probe which
finds its way through the masonry of the mason-bee and lays the egg in
the cocoon of the great somnolent larva; but the Balaninus has none of
these swords, daggers, or pikes; she has nothing but the tip of her
abdomen. Yet she has only to apply that abdominal extremity to the
opening of the passage, and the egg is immediately lodged at the very
bottom.

Anatomy will give us the answer to the riddle, which is otherwise
indecipherable. I open the body of a gravid female. There, before my
eyes, is something that takes my breath away. There, occupying the whole
length of the body, is an extraordinary device; a red, horny, rigid rod;
I had almost said a rostrum, so greatly does it resemble the implement
which the insect carries on his head. It is a tube, fine as a horsehair,
slightly enlarged at the free extremity, like an old-fashioned
blunderbuss, and expanding to form an egg-shaped capsule at the point of
origin.

This is the oviduct, and its dimensions are the same as those of the
rostrum. As far as the perforating beak can plunge, so far the oviscapt,
the interior rostrum, will reach. When working upon her acorn the female
chooses the point of attack so that the two complementary instruments
can each of them reach the desired point at the base of the acorn.

The matter now explains itself. The work of drilling completed, the
gallery ready, the mother turns and places the tip of the abdomen
against the orifice. She extrudes the internal mechanism, which easily
passes through the loose debris of the boring. No sign of the probe
appears, so quickly and discreetly does it work; nor is any trace of it
to be seen when, the egg having been properly deposited, the implement
ascends and returns to the abdomen. It is over, and the mother departs,
and we have not caught a glimpse of her internal mechanism.

Was I not right to insist? An apparently insignificant fact has led to
the authentic proof of a fact that the Larinidæ had already made me
suspect. The long-beaked weevils have an internal probe, an abdominal
rostrum, which nothing in their external appearance betrays; they
possess, among the hidden organs of the abdomen, the counterpart of the
grasshopper's sabre and the ichneumon's dagger.







Peas are held in high esteem by mankind. From remote ages man has
endeavoured, by careful culture, to produce larger, tenderer, and
sweeter varieties. Of an adaptable character, under careful treatment
the plant has evolved in a docile fashion, and has ended by giving us
what the ambition of the gardener desired. To-day we have gone far
beyond the yield of the Varrons and Columelles, and further still beyond
the original pea; from the wild seeds confided to the soil by the first
man who thought to scratch up the surface of the earth, perhaps with the
half-jaw of a cave-bear, whose powerful canine tooth would serve him as
a ploughshare!

Where is it, this original pea, in the world of spontaneous vegetation?
Our own country has nothing resembling it. Is it to be found elsewhere?
On this point botany is silent, or replies only with vague
probabilities.

We find the same ignorance elsewhere on the subject of the majority of
our alimentary vegetables. Whence comes wheat, the blessed grain which
gives us bread? No one knows. You will not find it here, except in the
care of man; nor will you find it abroad. In the East, the birthplace
of agriculture, no botanist has ever encountered the sacred ear growing
of itself on unbroken soil.

Barley, oats, and rye, the turnip and the beet, the beetroot, the
carrot, the pumpkin, and so many other vegetable products, leave us in
the same perplexity; their point of departure is unknown to us, or at
most suspected behind the impenetrable cloud of the centuries. Nature
delivered them to us in the full vigour of the thing untamed, when their
value as food was indifferent, as to-day she offers us the sloe, the
bullace, the blackberry, the crab; she gave them to us in the state of
imperfect sketches, for us to fill out and complete; it was for our
skill and our labour patiently to induce the nourishing pulp which was
the earliest form of capital, whose interest is always increasing in the
primordial bank of the tiller of the soil.

As storehouses of food the cereal and the vegetable are, for the greater
part, the work of man. The fundamental species, a poor resource in their
original state, we borrowed as they were from the natural treasury of
the vegetable world; the perfected race, rich in alimentary materials,
is the result of our art.

If wheat, peas, and all the rest are indispensable to us, our care, by a
just return, is absolutely necessary to them. Such as our needs have
made them, incapable of resistance in the bitter struggle for survival,
these vegetables, left to themselves without culture, would rapidly
disappear, despite the numerical abundance of their seeds, as the
foolish sheep would disappear were there no more sheep-folds.

They are our work, but not always our exclusive property. Wherever food
is amassed, the consumers collect from the four corners of the sky; they
invite themselves to the feast of abundance, and the richer the food the
greater their numbers. Man, who alone is capable of inducing agrarian
abundance, is by that very fact the giver of an immense banquet at which
legions of feasters take their place. By creating more juicy and more
generous fruits he calls to his enclosures, despite himself, thousands
and thousands of hungry creatures, against whose appetites his
prohibitions are helpless. The more he produces, the larger is the
tribute demanded of him. Wholesale agriculture and vegetable abundance
favour our rival the insect.

This is the immanent law. Nature, with an equal zeal, offers her mighty
breast to all her nurslings alike; to those who live by the goods of
others no less than to the producers. For us, who plough, sow, and reap,
and weary ourselves with labour, she ripens the wheat; she ripens it
also for the little Calender-beetle, which, although exempted from the
labour of the fields, enters our granaries none the less, and there,
with its pointed beak, nibbles our wheat, grain by grain, to the husk.

For us, who dig, weed, and water, bent with fatigue and burned by the
sun, she swells the pods of the pea; she swells them also for the
weevil, which does no gardener's work, yet takes its share of the
harvest at its own hour, when the earth is joyful with the new life of
spring.

Let us follow the manoeuvres of this insect which takes its tithe of
the green pea. I, a benevolent ratepayer, will allow it to take its
dues; it is precisely to benefit it that I have sown a few rows of the
beloved plant in a corner of my garden. Without other invitation on my
part than this modest expenditure of seed-peas it arrives punctually
during the month of May. It has learned that this stony soil, rebellious
to the culture of the kitchen-gardener, is bearing peas for the first
time. In all haste therefore it has hurried, an agent of the
entomological revenue system, to demand its dues.

Whence does it come? It is impossible to say precisely. It has come from
some shelter, somewhere, in which it has passed the winter in a state of
torpor. The plane-tree, which sheds its rind during the heats of the
summer, furnishes an excellent refuge for homeless insects under its
partly detached sheets of bark.

I have often found our weevil in such a winter refuge. Sheltered under
the dead covering of the plane, or otherwise protected while the winter
lasts, it awakens from its torpor at the first touch of a kindly sun.
The almanack of the instincts has aroused it; it knows as well as the
gardener when the pea-vines are in flower, and seeks its favourite
plant, journeying thither from every side, running with quick, short
steps, or nimbly flying.

A small head, a fine snout, a costume of ashen grey sprinkled with
brown, flattened wing-covers, a dumpy, compact body, with two large
black dots on the rear segment--such is the summary portrait of my
visitor. The middle of May approaches, and with it the van of the
invasion.

They settle on the flowers, which are not unlike white-winged
butterflies. I see them at the base of the blossom or inside the cavity
of the "keel" of the flower, but the majority explore the petals and
take possession of them. The time for laying the eggs has not yet
arrived. The morning is mild; the sun is warm without being oppressive.
It is the moment of nuptial flights; the time of rejoicing in the
splendour of the sunshine. Everywhere are creatures rejoicing to be
alive. Couples come together, part, and re-form. When towards noon the
heat becomes too great, the weevils retire into the shadow, taking
refuge singly in the folds of the flowers whose secret corners they know
so well. To-morrow will be another day of festival, and the next day
also, until the pods, emerging from the shelter of the "keel" of the
flower, are plainly visible, enlarging from day to day.

A few gravid females, more pressed for time than the others, confide
their eggs to the growing pod, flat and meagre as it issues from its
floral sheath. These hastily laid batches of eggs, expelled perhaps by
the exigencies of an ovary incapable of further delay, seem to me in
serious danger; for the seed in which the grub must establish itself is
as yet no more than a tender speck of green, without firmness and
without any farinaceous tissue. No larva could possible find sufficient
nourishment there, unless it waited for the pea to mature.

But is the grub capable of fasting for any length of time when once
hatched? It is doubtful. The little I have seen tells me that the
new-born grub must establish itself in the midst of its food as quickly
as possible, and that it perishes unless it can do so. I am therefore of
opinion that such eggs as are deposited in immature pods are lost.
However, the race will hardly suffer by such a loss, so fertile is the
little beetle. We shall see directly how prodigal the female is of her
eggs, the majority of which are destined to perish.

The important part of the maternal task is completed by the end of May,
when the shells are swollen by the expanding peas, which have reached
their final growth, or are but little short of it. I was anxious to see
the female Bruchus at work in her quality of Curculionid, as our
classification declares her.[8] The other weevils are Rhyncophora,
beaked insects, armed with a drill with which to prepare the hole in
which the egg is laid. The Bruchus possesses only a short snout or
muzzle, excellently adapted for eating soft tissues, but valueless as a
drill.

The method of installing the family is consequently absolutely
different. There are no industrious preparations as with the Balinidæ,
the Larinidæ, and the Rhynchitides. Not being equipped with a long
oviscapt, the mother sows her eggs in the open, with no protection
against the heat of the sun and the variations of temperature. Nothing
could be simpler, and nothing more perilous to the eggs, in the absence
of special characteristics which would enable them to resist the
alternate trials of heat and cold, moisture and drought.

In the caressing sunlight of ten o'clock in the morning the mother runs
up and down the chosen pod, first on one side, then on the other, with a
jerky, capricious, unmethodical gait. She repeatedly extrudes a short
oviduct, which oscillates right and left as though to graze the skin of
the pod. An egg follows, which is abandoned as soon as laid.

A hasty touch of the oviduct, first here, then there, on the green skin
of the pea-pod, and that is all. The egg is left there, unprotected, in
the full sunlight. No choice of position is made such as might assist
the grub when it seeks to penetrate its larder. Some eggs are laid on
the swellings created by the peas beneath; others in the barren valleys
which separate them. The first are close to the peas, the second at some
distance from them. In short, the eggs of the Bruchus are laid at
random, as though on the wing.

We observe a still more serious vice: the number of eggs is out of all
proportion to the number of peas in the pod. Let us note at the outset
that each grub requires one pea; it is the necessary ration, and is
largely sufficient to one larva, but is not enough for several, nor even
for two. One pea to each grub, neither more nor less, is the
unchangeable rule.

We should expect to find signs of a procreative economy which would
impel the female to take into account the number of peas contained in
the pod which she has just explored; we might expect her to set a
numerical limit on her eggs in conformity with that of the peas
available. But no such limit is observed. The rule of one pea to one
grub is always contradicted by the multiplicity of consumers.

My observations are unanimous on this point. The number of eggs
deposited on one pod always exceeds the number of peas available, and
often to a scandalous degree. However meagre the contents of the pod
there is a superabundance of consumers. Dividing the sum of the eggs
upon such or such a pod by that of the peas contained therein, I find
there are five to eight claimants for each pea; I have found ten, and
there is no reason why this prodigality should not go still further.
Many are called, but few are chosen! What is to become of all these
supernumeraries, perforce excluded from the banquet for want of space?

The eggs are of a fairly bright amber yellow, cylindrical in form,
smooth, and rounded at the ends. Their length is at most a twenty-fifth
of an inch. Each is affixed to the pod by means of a slight network of
threads of coagulated albumen. Neither wind nor rain can loosen their
hold.

The mother not infrequently emits them two at a time, one above the
other; not infrequently, also, the uppermost of the two eggs hatches
before the other, while the latter fades and perishes. What was lacking
to this egg, that it should fail to produce a grub? Perhaps a bath of
sunlight; the incubating heat of which the outer egg has robbed it.
Whether on account of the fact that it is shadowed by the other egg, or
for other reasons, the elder of the eggs in a group of two rarely
follows the normal course, but perishes on the pod, dead without having
lived.

There are exceptions to this premature end; sometimes the two eggs
develop equally well; but such cases are exceptional, so that the
Bruchid family would be reduced to about half its dimensions if the
binary system were the rule. To the detriment of our peas and to the
advantage of the beetle, the eggs are commonly laid one by one and in
isolation.

A recent emergence is shown by a little sinuous ribbon-like mark, pale
or whitish, where the skin of the pod is raised and withered, which
starts from the egg and is the work of the new-born larva; a
sub-epidermic tunnel along which the grub works its way, while seeking a
point from which it can escape into a pea. This point once attained, the
larva, which is scarcely a twenty-fifth of an inch in length, and is
white with a black head, perforates the envelope and plunges into the
capacious hollow of the pod.

It has reached the peas and crawls upon the nearest. I have observed it
with the magnifier. Having explored the green globe, its new world, it
begins to sink a well perpendicularly into the sphere. I have often seen
it half-way in, wriggling its tail in the effort to work the quicker. In
a short time the grub disappears and is at home. The point of entry,
minute, but always easily recognisable by its brown coloration on the
pale green background of the pea, has no fixed location; it may be at
almost any point on the surface of the pea, but an exception is usually
made of the lower half; that is, the hemisphere whose pole is formed by
the supporting stem.

It is precisely in this portion that the germ is found, which will not
be eaten by the larva, and will remain capable of developing into a
plant, in spite of the large aperture made by the emergence of the adult
insect. Why is this particular portion left untouched? What are the
motives that safeguard the germ?

It goes without saying that the Bruchus is not considering the gardener.
The pea is meant for it and for no one else. In refusing the few bites
that would lead to the death of the seed, it has no intention of
limiting its destruction. It abstains from other motives.

Let us remark that the peas touch laterally, and are pressed one
against the other, so that the grub, when searching for a point of
attack, cannot circulate at will. Let us also note that the lower pole
expands into the umbilical excrescence, which is less easy of
perforation than those parts protected by the skin alone. It is even
possible that the umbilicum, whose organisation differs from that of the
rest of the pea, contains a peculiar sap that is distasteful to the
little grub.

Such, doubtless, is the reason why the peas exploited by the Bruchus are
still able to germinate. They are damaged, but not dead, because the
invasion was conducted from the free hemisphere, a portion less
vulnerable and more easy of access. Moreover, as the pea in its entirety
is too large for a single grub to consume, the consumption is limited to
the portion preferred by the consumer, and this portion is not the
essential portion of the pea.

With other conditions, with very much smaller or very much larger seeds,
we shall observe very different results. If too small, the germ will
perish, gnawed like the rest by the insufficiently provisioned inmate;
if too large, the abundance of food will permit of several inmates.
Exploited in the absence of the pea, the cultivated vetch and the broad
bean afford us an excellent example; the smaller seed, of which all but
the skin is devoured, is left incapable of germination; but the large
bean, even though it may have held a number of grubs, is still capable
of sprouting.

Knowing that the pod always exhibits a number of eggs greatly in excess
of the enclosed peas, and that each pea is the exclusive property of one
grub, we naturally ask what becomes of the superfluous grubs. Do they
perish outside when the more precocious have one by one taken their
places in their vegetable larder? or do they succumb to the intolerant
teeth of the first occupants? Neither explanation is correct. Let us
relate the facts.

On all old peas--they are at this stage dry--from which the adult
Bruchus has emerged, leaving a large round hole of exit, the
magnifying-glass will show a variable number of fine reddish
punctuations, perforated in the centre. What are these spots, of which I
count five, six, and even more on a single pea? It is impossible to be
mistaken: they are the points of entry of as many grubs. Several grubs
have entered the pea, but of the whole group only one has survived,
fattened, and attained the adult age. And the others? We shall see.

At the end of May, and in June, the period of egg-laying, let us inspect
the still green and tender peas. Nearly all the peas invaded show us the
multiple perforations already observed on the dry peas abandoned by the
weevils. Does this actually mean that there are several grubs in the
pea? Yes. Skin the peas in question, separate the cotyledons, and break
them up as may be necessary. We shall discover several grubs, extremely
youthful, curled up comma-wise, fat and lively, each in a little round
niche in the body of the pea.

Peace and welfare seem to reign in the little community. There is no
quarrelling, no jealousy between neighbours. The feast has commenced;
food is abundant, and the feasters are separated one from another by the
walls of uneaten substance. With this isolation in separate cells no
conflicts need be feared; no sudden bite of the mandibles, whether
intentional or accidental. All the occupants enjoy the same rights of
property, the same appetite, and the same strength. How does this
communal feast terminate?

Having first opened them, I place a number of peas which are found to be
well peopled in a glass test-tube. I open others daily. In this way I
keep myself informed as to the progress of the various larvæ. At first
nothing noteworthy is to be seen. Isolated in its narrow chamber, each
grub nibbles the substance around it, peacefully and parsimoniously. It
is still very small; a mere speck of food is a feast; but the contents
of one pea will not suffice the whole number to the end. Famine is
ahead, and all but one must perish.

Soon, indeed, the aspect of things is entirely changed. One of the
grubs--that which occupies the central position in the pea--begins to
grow more quickly than the others. Scarcely has it surpassed the others
in size when the latter cease to eat, and no longer attempt to burrow
forwards. They lie motionless and resigned; they die that gentle death
which comes to unconscious lives. Henceforth the entire pea belongs to
the sole survivor. Now what has happened that these lives around the
privileged one should be thus annihilated? In default of a satisfactory
reply, I will propose a suggestion.

In the centre of the pea, less ripened than the rest of the seed by the
chemistry of the sun, may there not be a softer pulp, of a quality
better adapted to the infantile digestion of the grub? There, perhaps,
being nourished by tenderer, sweeter, and perhaps more tasty tissues,
the stomach becomes more vigorous, until it is fit to undertake less
easily digested food. A nursling is fed on milk before proceeding to
bread and broth. May not the central portion of the pea be the
feeding-bottle of the Bruchid?

With equal rights, fired by an equal ambition, all the occupants of the
pea bore their way towards the delicious morsel. The journey is
laborious, and the grubs must rest frequently in their provisional
niches. They rest; while resting they frugally gnaw the riper tissues
surrounding them; they gnaw rather to open a way than to fill their
stomachs.

Finally one of the excavators, favoured by the direction taken, attains
the central portion. It establishes itself there, and all is over; the
others have only to die. How are they warned that the place is taken? Do
they hear their brother gnawing at the walls of his lodging? can they
feel the vibration set up by his nibbling mandibles? Something of the
kind must happen, for from that moment they make no attempt to burrow
further. Without struggling against the fortunate winner, without
seeking to dislodge him, those which are beaten in the race give
themselves up to death. I admire this candid resignation on the part of
the departed.

Another condition--that of space--is also present as a factor. The
pea-weevil is the largest of our Bruchidæ. When it attains the adult
stage it requires a certain amplitude of lodging, which the other
weevils do not require in the same degree. A pea provides it with a
sufficiently spacious cell; nevertheless, the cohabitation of two in one
pea would be impossible; there would be no room, even were the two to
put up with a certain discomfort. Hence the necessity of an inevitable
decimation, which will suppress all the competitors save one.

Now the superior volume of the broad bean, which is almost as much
beloved by the weevil as the pea, can lodge a considerable community,
and the solitary can live as a cenobite. Without encroaching on the
domain of their neighbours, five or six or more can find room in the one
bean.

Moreover, each grub can find its infant diet; that is, that layer which,
remote from the surface, hardens only gradually and remains full of sap
until a comparatively late period. This inner layer represents the crumb
of a loaf, the rest of the bean being the crust.

In the pea, a sphere of much less capacity, it occupies the central
portion; a limited point at which the grub develops, and lacking which
it perishes; but in the bean it lines the wide adjoining faces of the
two flattened cotyledons. No matter where the point of attack is made,
the grub has only to bore straight down when it quickly reaches the
softer tissues. What is the result? I have counted the eggs adhering to
a bean-pod and the beans included in the pod, and comparing the two
figures I find that there is plenty of room for the whole family at the
rate of five or six dwellers in each bean. No superfluous larvæ perish
of hunger when barely issued from the egg; all have their share of the
ample provision; all live and prosper. The abundance of food balances
the prodigal fertility of the mother.

If the Bruchus were always to adopt the broad bean for the establishment
of her family I could well understand the exuberant allowance of eggs to
one pod; a rich food-stuff easily obtained evokes a large batch of
eggs. But the case of the pea perplexes me. By what aberration does the
mother abandon her children to starvation on this totally insufficient
vegetable? Why so many grubs to each pea when one pea is sufficient only
for one grub?

Matters are not so arranged in the general balance-sheet of life. A
certain foresight seems to rule over the ovary so that the number of
mouths is in proportion to the abundance or scarcity of the food
consumed. The Scarabæus, the Sphex, the Necrophorus, and other insects
which prepare and preserve alimentary provision for their families, are
all of a narrowly limited fertility, because the balls of dung, the dead
or paralysed insects, or the buried corpses of animals on which their
offspring are nourished are provided only at the cost of laborious
efforts.

The ordinary bluebottle, on the contrary, which lays her eggs upon
butcher's meat or carrion, lays them in enormous batches. Trusting in
the inexhaustible riches represented by the corpse, she is prodigal of
offspring, and takes no account of numbers. In other cases the provision
is acquired by audacious brigandage, which exposes the newly born
offspring to a thousand mortal accidents. In such cases the mother
balances the chances of destruction by an exaggerated flux of eggs. Such
is the case with the Meloides, which, stealing the goods of others under
conditions of the greatest peril, are accordingly endowed with a
prodigious fertility.

The Bruchus knows neither the fatigues of the laborious, obliged to
limit the size of her family, nor the misfortunes of the parasite,
obliged to produce an exaggerated number of offspring. Without painful
search, entirely at her ease, merely moving in the sunshine over her
favourite plant, she can ensure a sufficient provision for each of her
offspring; she can do so, yet is foolish enough to over-populate the pod
of the pea; a nursery insufficiently provided, in which the great
majority will perish of starvation. This ineptitude is a thing I cannot
understand: it clashes too completely with the habitual foresight of the
maternal instinct.

I am inclined to believe that the pea is not the original food plant of
the Bruchus. The original plant must rather have been the bean, one seed
of which is capable of supporting half a dozen or more larvæ. With the
larger cotyledon the crying disproportion between the number of eggs and
the available provision disappears.

Moreover, it is indubitable that the bean is of earlier date than the
pea. Its exceptional size and its agreeable flavour would certainly have
attracted the attention of man from the remotest periods. The bean is a
ready-made mouthful, and would be of the greatest value to the hungry
tribe. Primitive man would at an early date have sown it beside his
wattled hut. Coming from Central Asia by long stages, their wagons drawn
by shaggy oxen and rolling on the circular discs cut from the trunks of
trees, the early immigrants would have brought to our virgin land, first
the bean, then the pea, and finally the cereal, that best of safeguards
against famine. They taught us the care of herds, and the use of bronze,
the material of the first metal implement. Thus the dawn of civilisation
arose over France. With the bean did those ancient teachers also
involuntarily bring us the insect which to-day disputes it with us? It
is doubtful; the Bruchidæ seem to be indigenous. At all events, I find
them levying tribute from various indigenous plants, wild vegetables
which have never tempted the appetite of man. They abound in particular
upon the great forest vetch (_Lathyrus latifolius_), with its
magnificent heads of flowers and long handsome pods. The seeds are not
large, being indeed smaller than the garden pea; but eaten to the very
skin, as they invariably are, each is sufficient to the needs of its
grub.

We must not fail to note their number. I have counted more than twenty
in a single pod, a number unknown in the case of the pea, even in the
most prolific varieties. Consequently this superb vetch is in general
able to nourish without much loss the family confided to its pod.

Where the forest vetch is lacking, the Bruchus, none the less, bestows
its habitual prodigality of eggs upon another vegetable of similar
flavour, but incapable of nourishing all the grubs: for the example, the
travelling vetch (_Vicia peregrina_) or the cultivated vetch (_Vicia
sativa_). The number of eggs remains high even upon insufficient pods,
because the original food-plant offered a copious provision, both in the
multiplicity and the size of the seeds. If the Bruchus is really a
stranger, let us regard the bean as the original food-plant; if
indigenous, the large vetch.

Sometime in the remote past we received the pea, growing it at first in
the prehistoric vegetable garden which already supplied the bean. It was
found a better article of diet than the broad bean, which to-day, after
such good service, is comparatively neglected. The weevil was of the
same opinion as man, and without entirely forgetting the bean and the
vetch it established the greater part of its tribe upon the pea, which
from century to century was more widely cultivated. To-day we have to
share our peas: the Bruchidæ take what they need, and bestow their
leavings on us.

This prosperity of the insect which is the offspring of the abundance
and quality of our garden products is from another point of view
equivalent to decadence. For the weevil, as for ourselves, progress in
matters of food and drink is not always beneficial. The race would
profit better if it remained frugal. On the bean and the vetch the
Bruchus founded colonies in which the infant mortality was low. There
was room for all. On the pea-vine, delicious though its fruits may be,
the greater part of its offspring die of starvation. The rations are
few, and the hungry mouths are multitudinous.

We will linger over this problem no longer. Let us observe the grub
which has now become the sole tenant of the pea by the death of its
brothers. It has had no part in their death; chance has favoured it,
that is all. In the centre of the pea, a wealthy solitude, it performs
the duty of a grub; the sole duty of eating. It nibbles the walls
enclosing it, enlarging its lodgment, which is always entirely filled by
its corpulent body. It is well shaped, fat, and shining with health. If
I disturb it, it turns gently in its niche and sways its head. This is
its manner of complaining of my importunities. Let us leave it in peace.

It profits so greatly and so swiftly by its position that by the time
the dog-days have come it is already preparing for its approaching
liberation. The adult is not sufficiently well equipped to open for
itself a way out through the pea, which is now completely hardened. The
larva knows of this future helplessness, and with consummate art
provides for its release. With its powerful mandibles it bores a channel
of exit, exactly round, with extremely clean-cut sides. The most skilful
ivory-carver could do no better.

To prepare the door of exit in advance is not enough; the grub must also
provide for the tranquillity essential to the delicate processes of
nymphosis. An intruder might enter by the open door and injure the
helpless nymph. This passage must therefore remain closed. But how?

As the grub bores the passage of exit it consumes the farinaceous matter
without leaving a crumb. Having come to the skin of the pea it stops
short. This membrane, semi-translucid, is the door to the chamber of
metamorphosis, its protection against the evil intentions of external
creatures.

It is also the only obstacle which the adult will encounter at the
moment of exit. To lessen the difficulty of opening it the grub takes
the precaution of gnawing at the inner side of the skin, all round the
circumference, so as to make a line of least resistance. The perfect
insect will only have to heave with its shoulder and strike a few blows
with its head in order to raise the circular door and knock it off like
the lid of a box. The passage of exit shows through the diaphanous skin
of the pea as a large circular spot, which is darkened by the obscurity
of the interior. What passes behind it is invisible, hidden as it is
behind a sort of ground glass window.

A pretty invention, this little closed porthole, this barricade against
the invader, this trap-door raised by a push when the time has come for
the hermit to enter the world. Shall we credit it to the Bruchus? Did
the ingenious insect conceive the undertaking? Did it think out a plan
and work out a scheme of its own devising? This would be no small
triumph for the brain of a weevil. Before coming to a conclusion let us
try an experiment.

I deprive certain occupied peas of their skin, and I dry them with
abnormal rapidity, placing them in glass test-tubes. The grubs prosper
as well as in the intact peas. At the proper time the preparations for
emergence are made.

If the grub acts on its own inspiration, if it ceases to prolong its
boring directly it recognises that the outer coating, auscultated from
time to time, is sufficiently thin, what will it do under the conditions
of the present test? Feeling itself at the requisite distance from the
surface it will stop boring; it will respect the outer layer of the bare
pea, and will thus obtain the indispensable protecting screen.

Nothing of the kind occurs. In every case the passage is completely
excavated; the entrance gapes wide open, as large and as carefully
executed as though the skin of the pea were in its place. Reasons of
security have failed to modify the usual method of work. This open
lodging has no defence against the enemy; but the grub exhibits no
anxiety on this score.

Neither is it thinking of the outer enemy when it bores down to the skin
when the pea is intact, and then stops short. It suddenly stops because
the innutritious skin is not to its taste. We ourselves remove the
parchment-like skins from a mess of pease-pudding, as from a culinary
point of view they are so much waste matter. The larva of the Bruchus,
like ourselves, dislikes the skin of the pea. It stops short at the
horny covering, simply because it is checked by an uneatable substance.
From this aversion a little miracle arises; but the insect has no sense
of logic; it is passively obedient to the superior logic of facts. It
obeys its instinct, as unconscious of its act as is a crystal when it
assembles, in exquisite order, its battalions of atoms.

Sooner or later during the month of August we see a shadowy circle form
on each inhabited pea; but only one on each seed. These circles of
shadow mark the doors of exit. Most of them open in September. The lid,
as though cut out with a punch, detaches itself cleanly and falls to the
ground, leaving the orifice free. The Bruchus emerges, freshly clad, in
its final form.

The weather is delightful. Flowers are abundant, awakened by the summer
showers; and the weevils visit them in the lovely autumn weather. Then,
when the cold sets in, they take up their winter quarters in any
suitable retreat. Others, still numerous, are less hasty in quitting the
native seed. They remain within during the whole winter, sheltered
behind the trap-door, which they take care not to touch. The door of the
cell will not open on its hinges, or, to be exact, will not yield along
the line of least resistance, until the warm days return. Then the late
arrivals will leave their shelter and rejoin the more impatient, and
both will be ready for work when the pea-vines are in flower.

To take a general view of the instincts in their inexhaustible variety
is, for the observer, the great attraction of the entomological world;
for nowhere do we gain a clearer sight of the wonderful way in which the
processes of life are ordered. Thus regarded entomology is not, I know,
to the taste of everybody; the simple creature absorbed in the doings
and habits of insects is held in low esteem. To the terrible
utilitarian, a bushel of peas preserved from the weevil is of more
importance than a volume of observations which bring no immediate
profit.

Yet who has told you, O man of little faith, that what is useless to-day
will not be useful to-morrow? If we learn the customs of insects or
animals we shall understand better how to protect our goods. Do not
despise disinterested knowledge, or you may rue the day. It is by the
accumulation of ideas, whether immediately applicable or otherwise, that
humanity has done, and will continue to do, better to-day than
yesterday, and better to-morrow than to-day. If we live on peas and
beans, which we dispute with the weevil, we also live by knowledge, that
mighty kneading-trough in which the bread of progress is mixed and
leavened. Knowledge is well worth a few beans.

Among other things, knowledge tells us: "The seedsman need not go to the
expense of waging war upon the weevil. When the peas arrive in the
granary, the harm is already done; it is irreparable, but not
transmissible. The untouched peas have nothing to fear from the
neighbourhood of those which have been attacked, however long the
mixture is left. From the latter the weevils will issue when their time
has come; they will fly away from the storehouse if escape is possible;
if not, they will perish without in any way attacking the sound peas. No
eggs, no new generation will ever be seen upon or within the dried peas
in the storehouse; there the adult weevil can work no further mischief."

The Bruchus is not a sedentary inhabitant of granaries: it requires the
open air, the sun, the liberty of the fields. Frugal in everything, it
absolutely disdains the hard tissues of the vegetable; its tiny mouth is
content with a few honeyed mouthfuls, enjoyed upon the flowers. The
larvæ, on the other hand, require the tender tissues of the green pea
growing in the pod. For these reasons the granary knows no final
multiplication on the part of the despoiler.

The origin of the evil is in the kitchen-garden. It is there that we
ought to keep a watch on the misdeeds of the Bruchus, were it not for
the fact that we are nearly always weaponless when it comes to fighting
an insect. Indestructible by reason of its numbers, its small size, and
its cunning, the little creature laughs at the anger of man. The
gardener curses it, but the weevil is not disturbed: it imperturbably
continues its trade of levying tribute. Happily we have assistants more
patient and more clear-sighted than ourselves.

During the first week of August, when the mature Bruchus begins to
emerge, I notice a little Chalcidian, the protector of our peas. In my
rearing-cages it issues under my eyes in abundance from the peas
infested by the grub of the weevil. The female has a reddish head and
thorax; the abdomen is black, with a long augur-like oviscapt. The male,
a little smaller, is black. Both sexes have reddish claws and
thread-like antennæ.

In order to escape from the pea the slayer of the weevil makes an
opening in the centre of the circular trap-door which the grub of the
weevil prepared in view of its future deliverance. The slain has
prepared the way for the slayer. After this detail the rest may be
divined.

When the preliminaries to the metamorphosis are completed, when the
passage of escape is bored and furnished with its lid of superficial
membrane, the female Chalcidian arrives in a busy mood. She inspects the
peas, still on the vine, and enclosed in their pods; she auscultates
them with her antennæ; she discovers, hidden under the general envelope,
the weak points in the epidermic covering of the peas. Then, applying
her oviscapt, she thrusts it through the side of the pod and perforates
the circular trap-door. However far withdrawn into the centre of the
pea, the Bruchus, whether larvæ or nymph, is reached by the long
oviduct. It receives an egg in its tender flesh, and the thing is done.
Without possibility of defence, since it is by now a somnolent grub or a
helpless pupa, the embryo weevil is eaten until nothing but skin
remains. What a pity that we cannot at will assist the multiplication of
this eager exterminator! Alas! our assistants have got us in a vicious
circle, for if we wished to obtain the help of any great number of
Chalcidians we should be obliged in the first place to breed a
multiplicity of Bruchidæ.




CHAPTER XIX

AN INVADER.--THE HARICOT-WEEVIL


If there is one vegetable on earth that more than any other is a gift of
the gods, it is the haricot bean. It has all the virtues: it forms a
soft paste upon the tongue; it is extremely palatable, abundant,
inexpensive, and highly nutritious. It is a vegetable meat which,
without being bloody and repulsive, is the equivalent of the horrors
outspread upon the butcher's slab. To recall its services the more
emphatically, the Provençal idiom calls it the _gounflo-gus_--the filler
of the poor.

Blessed Bean, consoler of the wretched, right well indeed do you fill
the labourer, the honest, skilful worker who has drawn a low number in
the crazy lottery of life. Kindly Haricot, with three drops of oil and a
dash of vinegar you were the favourite dish of my young years; and even
now, in the evening of my days, you are welcome to my humble porringer.
We shall be friends to the last.

To-day it is not my intention to sing your merits; I wish simply to ask
you a question, being curious: What is the country of your origin? Did
you come from Central Asia with the broad bean and the pea? Did you make
part of that collection of seeds which the first pioneers of culture
brought us from their gardens? Were you known to antiquity?

Here the insect, an impartial and well-informed witness, answers: "No;
in our country antiquity was not acquainted with the haricot. The
precious vegetable came hither by the same road as the broad bean. It is
a foreigner, and of comparatively recent introduction into Europe."

The reply of the insect merits serious examination, supported as it is
by extremely plausible arguments. Here are the facts. For years
attentive to matters agricultural, I had never seen haricots attacked by
any insect whatever; not even by the Bruchidæ, the licensed robbers of
leguminous seeds.

On this point I have questioned my peasant neighbours. They are men of
the extremest vigilance in all that concerns their crops. To steal their
property is an abominable crime, swiftly discovered. Moreover, the
housewife, who individually examines all beans intended for the
saucepan, would inevitably find the malefactor.

All those I have spoken to replied to my questions with a smile in which
I read their lack of faith in my knowledge of insects. "Sir," they said,
"you must know that there are never grubs in the haricot bean. It is a
blessed vegetable, respected by the weevil. The pea, the broad bean, the
vetch, and the chick-pea all have their vermin; but the haricot, _lou
gounflo-gus_, never. What should we do, poor folk as we are, if the
_Courcoussoun_ robbed us of it?"

The fact is that the weevil despises the haricot; a very curious dislike
if we consider how industriously the other vegetables of the same family
are attacked. All, even the beggarly lentil, are eagerly exploited;
whilst the haricot, so tempting both as to size and flavour, remains
untouched. It is incomprehensible. Why should the Bruchus, which without
hesitation passes from the excellent to the indifferent, and from the
indifferent to the excellent, disdain this particularly toothsome seed?
It leaves the forest vetch for the pea, and the pea for the broad bean,
as pleased with the small as with the large, yet the temptations of the
haricot bean leave it indifferent. Why?

Apparently because the haricot is unknown to it. The other leguminous
plants, whether native or of Oriental origin, have been familiar to it
for centuries; it has tested their virtues year by year, and, confiding
in the lessons of the past, it bases its forethought for the future upon
ancient custom. The haricot is avoided as a newcomer, whose merits it
has not yet learned.

The insect emphatically informs us that with us the haricot is of recent
date. It has come to us from a distant country: and assuredly from the
New World. Every edible vegetable attracts its consumers. If it had
originated in the Old World the haricot would have had its licensed
consumers, as have the pea, the lentil, and the broad bean. The smallest
leguminous seed, if barely bigger than a pin's head, nourishes its
weevil; a dwarf which patiently nibbles it and excavates a dwelling; but
the plump, delicious haricot is spared.

This astonishing immunity can have only one explanation: like the potato
and the maize-plant, the haricot is a gift of the New World. It arrived
in Europe without the company of the insect which exploits it in its
native country; it has found in our fields another world of insects,
which have despised it because they did not know it. Similarly the
potato and the ear of maize are untouched in France unless their
American consumers are accidentally imported with them.

The verdict of the insect is confirmed by the negative testimony of the
ancient classics; the haricot never appears on the table of the Greek or
Roman peasant. In the second Eclogue of Virgil Thestylis prepares the
repast of the harvesters:--

  Thestylis et rapido fessis messoribus æstu
  Allia serpyllumque herbas contundit olentes.

This mixture is the equivalent of the _aïoli_, dear to the Provençal
palate. It sounds very well in verse, but is not very substantial. On
such an occasion men would look for that fundamental dish, the plate of
red haricots, seasoned with chopped onions. All in good time; this at
least would ballast the stomach. Thus refreshed in the open air,
listening to the song of the cigales, the gang of harvesters would take
their mid-day rest and gently digest their meal in the shadows of the
sheaves. Our modern Thestylis, differing little from her classic sister,
would take good care not to forget the _gounflo-gus_, that economical
resource of large appetites. The Thestylis of the past did not think of
providing it because she did not know it.

The same author shows us Tityrus offering a night's hospitality to his
friend Meliboeus, who has been driven from his property by the
soldiers of Octavius, and goes limping behind his flock of goats. We
shall have, says Tityrus, chestnuts, cheese, and fruits. History does
not say if Meliboeus allowed himself to be tempted. It is a pity; for
during the frugal meal we might have learned in a more explicit fashion
that the shepherds of the ancient world were not acquainted with the
haricot.

Ovid tells us, in a delightful passage, of the manner in which Philemon
and Baucis received the gods unawares as guests in their humble cottage.
On the three-legged table, which was levelled by means of a potsherd
under one of the legs, they served cabbage soup, rusty bacon, eggs
poached for a minute in the hot cinders, cornel-berries pickled in
brine, honey, and fruits. In this rustic abundance one dish was lacking;
an essential dish, which the Baucis of our countryside would never
forget. After bacon soup would follow the obligatory plate of haricots.
Why did Ovid, so prodigal of detail, neglect to mention a dish so
appropriate to the occasion? The reply is the same as before: because he
did not know of it.

In vain have I recapitulated all that my reading has taught me
concerning the rustic dietary of ancient times; I can recollect no
mention of the haricot. The worker in the vineyard and the harvester
have their lupins, broad beans, peas, and lentils, but never the bean of
beans, the haricot.

The haricot has a reputation of another kind. It is a source of
flatulence; you eat it, as the saying is, and then you take a walk. It
lends itself to the gross pleasantries loved of the populace; especially
when they are formulated by the shameless genius of an Aristophanes or a
Plautus. What merriment over a simple allusion to the sonorous bean,
what guffaws from the throats of Athenian sailors or Roman porters! Did
the two masters, in the unfettered gaiety of a language less reserved
than our own, ever mention the virtues of the haricot? No; they are
absolutely silent concerning the trumpet-voiced vegetable.

The name of the bean is a matter for reflection. It is of an unfamiliar
sound, having no affinity with our language. By its unlikeness to our
native combinations of sounds, it makes one think of the West Indies or
South America, as do _caoutchouc_ and _cacao_. Does the word as a matter
of fact come from the American Indians? Did we receive, together with
the vegetable, the name by which it is known in its native country?
Perhaps; but how are we to know? Haricot, fantastic haricot, you set us
a curious philological problem.

It is also known in French as _faséole_, or _flageolet_. The Provençal
calls it _faioù_ and _favioù_; the Catalan, _fayol_; the Spaniard,
_faseolo_; the Portuguese, _feyâo_; the Italian, _fagiuolo_. Here I am
on familiar ground: the languages of the Latin family have preserved,
with the inevitable modifications, the ancient word _faseolus_.

Now, if I consult my dictionary I find: _faselus_, _faseolus_,
_phaseolus_, haricot. Learned lexicographer, permit me to remark that
your translation is incorrect: _faselus_, _faseolus_ cannot mean
haricot. The incontestable proof is in the Georgics, where Virgil tells
us at what season we must sow the _faselus_. He says:--

  Si vero viciamque seres vilemque faselum ...
  Haud obscura cadens mittet tibi signa Bootes;
  Incipe, et ad medias sementem extende pruinas.

Nothing is clearer than the precept of the poet who was so admirably
familiar with all matters agricultural; the sowing of the _faselus_ must
be commenced when the constellation of Bootes disappears at the set of
sun, that is, in October; and it is to be continued until the middle of
the winter.

These conditions put the haricot out of the running: it is a delicate
plant, which would never survive the lightest frost. Winter would be
fatal to it, even under Italian skies. More refractory to cold on
account of the country of their origin, peas, broad beans, and vetches,
and other leguminous plants have nothing to fear from an autumn sowing,
and prosper during the winter provided the climate be fairly mild.

What then is represented by the _faselus_ of the Georgics, that
problematical vegetable which has transmitted its name to the haricot in
the Latin tongues? Remembering that the contemptuous epithet _vilis_ is
used by the poet in qualification, I am strongly inclined to regard it
as the cultivated vetch, the big square pea, the little-valued _jaïsso_
of the Provençal peasant.

The problem of the haricot stood thus, almost elucidated by the
testimony of the insect world alone, when an unexpected witness gave me
the last word of the enigma. It was once again a poet, and a famous
poet, M. José-Maria de Heredia, who came to the aid of the naturalist.
Without suspecting the service he was rendering, a friend of mine, the
village schoolmaster, lent me a magazine[9] in which I read the
following conversation between the master-sonneteer and a lady
journalist, who was anxious to know which of his own works he preferred.

"What would you have me say?" said the poet.

"I do not know what to say, I do not know which sonnet I prefer; I have
taken horrible pains with all of them.... But you, which do you prefer?"

"My dear master, how can I choose out of so many jewels, when each one
is perfect in its beauty? You flash pearls, emeralds, and rubies before
my astonished eyes: how should I decide to prefer the emerald to the
pearl? I am transported by admiration of the whole necklace."

"Well, as for me, there is something I am more proud of than of all my
sonnets, and which has done much more for my reputation than my verses."

I opened my eyes wide, "What is that?" I asked. The master looked at me
mischievously; then, with that beautiful light in his eyes which fires
his youthful countenance, he said triumphantly--

"It is my discovery of the etymology of the word haricot!"

I was so amazed that I forgot to laugh.

"I am perfectly serious in telling you this."

"I know, my dear master, of your reputation for profound scholarship:
but to imagine, on that account, that you were famed for your discovery
of the etymology of haricot--I should never have expected it! Will you
tell me how you made the discovery?"

"Willingly. See now: I found some information respecting the haricot
while studying that fine seventeenth-century work of natural history by
Hernandez: _De Historia plantarum novi orbis_. The word haricot was
unknown in France until the seventeenth century: people used the word
_feve_ or _phaséol_: in Mexican, _ayacot_. Thirty species of haricot
were cultivated in Mexico before the conquest. They are still known as
_ayacot_, especially the red haricot, spotted with black or violet. One
day at the house of Gaston Paris I met a famous scholar. Hearing my
name, he rushed at me and asked if it was I who had discovered the
etymology of the word haricot. He was absolutely ignorant of the fact
that I had written verses and published the _Trophées_."--

A very pretty whim, to count the jewellery of his famous sonnets as
second in importance to the nomenclature of a vegetable! I in my turn
was delighted with his _ayacot_. How right I was to suspect the
outlandish word of American Indian origin! How right the insect was, in
testifying, in its own fashion, that the precious bean came to us from
the New World! While still retaining its original name--or something
sufficiently like it--the bean of Montezuma, the Aztec _ayacot_, has
migrated from Mexico to the kitchen-gardens of Europe.

But it has reached us without the company of its licensed consumer; for
there must assuredly be a weevil in its native country which levies
tribute on its nourishing tissues. Our native bean-eaters have mistaken
the stranger; they have not had time as yet to grow familiar with it, or
to appreciate its merits; they have prudently abstained from touching
the _ayacot_, whose novelty awoke suspicion. Until our own days the
Mexican bean remained untouched: unlike our other leguminous seeds,
which are all eagerly exploited by the weevil.

This state of affairs could not last. If our own fields do not contain
the insect amateur of the haricot the New World knows it well enough. By
the road of commercial exchange, sooner or later some worm-eaten sack
of haricots must bring it to Europe. The invasion is inevitable.

According to documents now before me, indeed, it has already taken
place. Three or four years ago I received from Maillane, in the
Bouches-du-Rhône, what I sought in vain in my own neighbourhood,
although I questioned many a farmer and housewife, and astonished them
by my questions. No one had ever seen the pest of the haricot; no one
had ever heard of it. Friends who knew of my inquiries sent me from
Maillane, as I have said, information that gave great satisfaction to my
naturalist's curiosity. It was accompanied by a measure of haricots
which were utterly and outrageously spoiled; every bean was riddled with
holes, changed into a kind of sponge. Within them swarmed innumerable
weevils, which recalled, by their diminutive size, the lentil-weevil,
_Bruchus lenti_.

The senders told me of the loss experienced at Maillane. The odious
little creature, they said, had destroyed the greater portion of the
harvest. A veritable plague, such as had never before been known, had
fallen upon the haricots, leaving the housewife barely a handful to put
in the saucepan. Of the habits of the creature and its way of going to
work nothing was known. It was for me to discover them by means of
experiment.

Quick, then, let us experiment! The circumstances favour me. We are in
the middle of June, and in my garden there is a bed of early haricots;
the black Belgian haricots, sown for use in the kitchen. Since I must
sacrifice the toothsome vegetable, let us loose the terrible destroyer
on the mass of verdure. The development of the plant is at the
requisite stage, if I may go by what the _Bruchus pisi_ has already
taught me; the flowers are abundant, and the pods are equally so; still
green, and of all sizes.

I place on a plate two or three handfuls of the infested haricots, and
set the populous heap in the full sunlight by the edge of my bed of
beans. I can imagine what will happen. Those insects which are already
free, and those which the stimulus of the sunshine will presently
liberate, will emerge and take to their wings. Finding the maternal
haricot close at hand they will take possession of the vines. I shall
see them exploring pods and flowers, and before very long they will lay
their eggs. That is how the pea-weevil would behave under similar
conditions.

But no: to my surprise and confusion, matters do not fall out as I
foresaw. For a few minutes the insects bustle about in the sunlight,
opening and closing their wing-covers to ease the mechanism of flight;
then one by one they fly away, mounting in the luminous air; they grow
smaller and smaller to the sight, and are quickly lost to view. My
persevering attentions have not met with the slightest success; not one
of the weevils has settled on my haricots.

When the joys of liberty have been tasted will they return--to-night,
to-morrow, or later? No, they do not return. All that week, at
favourable hours, I inspect the rows of beans pod by pod, flower by
flower; but never a Bruchus do I see, nor even an egg. Yet the season is
propitious, for at this very moment the mothers imprisoned in my jars
lay a profusion of eggs upon the dry haricots.

Next season I try again. I have at my disposal two other beds, which I
have sown with the late haricot, the red haricot; partly for the use of
the household, but principally for the benefit of the weevil. Arranged
in convenient rows, the two crops will be ready, one in August and one
in September or later.

With the red haricot I repeat the experiment already essayed with the
black haricot. On several occasions, in suitable weather, I release
large numbers of weevils from my glass jars, the general headquarters of
the tribe. On each occasion the result is plainly negative. All through
the season, until both crops are exhausted, I repeat my search almost
daily; but I can never discover a single pod infested, nor even a single
weevil perching on leaf or flower.

Certainly the inspection has not been at fault. The household is warned
to respect certain rows of beans which I have reserved for myself. It is
also requested to keep a look-out for eggs on all the pods gathered. I
myself examine with a magnifying-glass all the haricots coming from my
own or from neighbouring gardens before handing them over to the
housewife to be shelled. All my trouble is wasted: there is not an egg
to be seen.

To these experiments in the open air I add others performed under glass.
I place, in some tall, narrow bottles, fresh haricot pods hanging from
their stems; some green, others mottled with crimson, and containing
seeds not far from mature. Each bottle is finally given a population of
weevils. This time I obtain some eggs, but I am no further advanced;
they are laid on the sides of the bottles, but not on the pods.
Nevertheless, they hatch. For a few days I see the grubs wandering
about, exploring the pods and the glass with equal zeal. Finally one
and all perish without touching the food provided.

The conclusion to be drawn from these facts is obvious: the young and
tender haricot is not the proper diet. Unlike the _Bruchus pisi_, the
female of the haricot-weevil refuses to trust her family to beans that
are not hardened by age and desiccation; she refused to settle on my
bean-patch because the food she required was not to be found there. What
does she require? Evidently the mature, dry, hard haricot, which falls
to earth with the sound of a small pebble. I hasten to satisfy her. I
place in the bottles some very mature, horny pods, thoroughly desiccated
by exposure to the sun. This time the family prospers, the grubs
perforate the dry shell, reach the beans, penetrate them, and henceforth
all goes well.

To judge by appearances, then, the weevil invades the granary. The beans
are left standing in the fields until both plants and pods, shrivelled
by the sun, are completely desiccated. The process of beating the pods
to loosen and separate the beans is thus greatly facilitated. It is then
that the weevil, finding matters to suit her, commences to lay her eggs.
By storing his crop a little late the peasant stores the pest as well.

But the weevil more especially attacks the haricot when warehoused. Like
the Calander-beetle, which nibbles the wheat in our granaries but
despises the cereal while still on the stalk, it abhors the bean while
tender, and prefers to establish itself in the peace and darkness of the
storehouse. It is a formidable enemy to the merchant rather than to the
peasant.

What a fury of destruction once the ravager is installed in the
vegetable treasure-house! My bottles give abundant evidence of this. One
single haricot bean shelters a numerous family; often as many as twenty
members. And not one generation only exploits the bean, but three or
four in the year. So long as the skin of the bean contains any edible
matter, so long do new consumers establish themselves within it, so that
the haricot finally becomes a mere shell stuffed with excreta. The skin,
despised by the grubs, is a mere sac, pierced with holes as many as the
inhabitants that have deserted it; the ruin is complete.

The _Bruchus pisi_, a solitary hermit, consumes only so much of the pea
as will leave a cell for the nymph; the rest remains intact, so that the
pea may be sown, or it will even serve as food, if we can overcome our
repugnance. The American insect knows nothing of these limitations; it
empties the haricot completely and leaves a skinful of filth that I have
seen the pigs refuse. America is anything but considerate when she sends
us her entomological pests. We owe the Phylloxera to America; the
Phylloxera, that calamitous insect against which our vine-growers wage
incessant war: and to-day she is sending us the haricot-weevil, which
threatens to be a plague of the future. A few experiments gave me some
idea of the peril of such an invasion.

For nearly three years there have stood, on my laboratory table, some
dozens of jars and bottles covered with pieces of gauze which prevent
escape while permitting of a constant ventilation. These are the cages
of my menagerie. In them I rear the haricot-weevil, varying the system
of education at will. Amongst other things I have learned that this
insect, far from being exclusive in its choice, will accommodate itself
to most of our leguminous foods.

All the haricots suit it, black and white, red and variegated, large and
small; those of the latest crop and those which have been many years in
stock and are almost completely refractory to boiling water. The loose
beans are attacked by preference, as being easier to invade, but when
the loose beans are not available those in the natural shelter of their
pods are attacked with equal zest. However dry and parchment-like the
pods, the grubs have no difficulty in attaining the seeds. When attacked
in the field or garden, the bean is attacked in this way through the
pod. The bean known in Provence as the blind haricot--_lou faioù
borgné_--a bean with a long pod, which is marked with a black spot at
the navel, which has the look of a closed and blackened eye, is also
greatly appreciated; indeed, I fancy my little guests show an obvious
preference for this particular bean.

So far, nothing abnormal; the Bruchus does not wander beyond the limits
of the botanical family _Phaseolus_. But here is a characteristic that
increases the peril, and shows us this lover of beans in an unexpected
light. Without the slightest hesitation it accepts the dry pea, the
bean, the vetch, the tare, and the chick-pea; it goes from one to the
other, always satisfied; its offspring live and prosper in all these
seeds as well as in the haricot. Only the lentil is refused, perhaps on
account of its insufficient volume. The American weevil is a formidable
experimentalist.

The peril would be much greater did the insect pass from leguminous
seeds to cereals, as at first I feared it might. But it does not do so;
imprisoned in my bottles together with a handful of wheat, barley, rice,
or maize, the Bruchus invariably perished and left no offspring. The
result was the same with oleaginous seeds: such as castor-oil and
sunflower. Nothing outside the bean family is of any use to the Bruchus.
Thus limited, its portion is none the less considerable, and it uses and
abuses it with the utmost energy. The eggs are white, slender, and
cylindrical. There is no method in their distribution, no choice in
their deposition. The mother lays them singly or in little groups, on
the walls of the jar as well as on the haricots. In her negligence she
will even lay them on maize, coffee, castor-oil seeds, and other seeds,
on which the newly born grubs will promptly perish, not finding them to
their taste. What place has maternal foresight here? Abandoned no matter
where in the heap of seeds, the eggs are always in place, as it is left
to the grub to search and to find the points of invasion.

In five days at most the egg is hatched. A little white creature with a
red-brown head emerges. It is a mere speck of a creature, just visible
to the naked eye. Its body is thickened forward, to give more strength
to its implements--its mandibles--which have to perforate the hard
substance of the dry bean, which is as tough as wood. The larvæ of the
Buprestis and the Capricornis, which burrow in the trunks of trees, are
similarly shaped. Directly it issues from the egg the wriggling creature
makes off at random with an activity we should hardly expect in one so
young. It wanders hither and thither, eager to find food and shelter as
soon as possible.

Within twenty-four hours it has usually attained both. I see the tiny
grub perforate the horny skin that covers the cotyledons; I watch its
efforts; I surprise it sunk half-way in the commencement of a burrow, at
the mouth of which is a white floury powder, the waste from the
mandibles. It works its way inward and buries itself in the heart of the
seed. It will emerge in the adult form in the course of about five
weeks, so rapid is its evolution.

This hasty development allows of several generations in the year. I have
recorded four. On the other hand, one isolated couple has furnished me
with a family of eighty. Consider only the half of this
number--supposing the sexes to be equal in number--and at the end of a
year the couples issued from this original pair would be represented by
the fortieth power of forty; in larvæ they would represent the frightful
total of more than five millions. What a mountain of haricots would be
ravaged by such a legion!

The industry of the larvæ reminds us at every point what we have learned
from the _Bruchus pisi_. Each grub excavates a lodging in the mass of
the bean, respecting the epidermis, and preparing a circular trap-door
which the adult can easily open with a push at the moment of emergence.
At the termination of the larval phase the lodgements are betrayed on
the surface of the bean by so many shadowy circles. Finally the lid
falls, the insect leaves its cell, and the haricot remains pierced by as
many holes as it has nourished grubs.

Extremely frugal, satisfied with a little farinaceous powder, the adults
seem by no means anxious to abandon the native heap or bin so long as
there are beans untouched. They mate in the interstices of the heap;
the mothers sow their eggs at random; the young larvæ establish
themselves some in beans that are so far intact, some in beans which are
perforated but not yet exhausted; and all through the summer the
operations of breeding are repeated once in every five weeks. The last
generation of the year--that of September or October--sleeps in its
cells until the warm weather returns.

If the haricot pest were ever to threaten us seriously it would not be
very difficult to wage a war of extermination against it. Its habits
teach us what tactics we ought to follow. It exploits the dried and
gathered crop in the granary or the storehouse. If it is difficult to
attack it in the open it would also be useless. The greater part of its
affairs are managed elsewhere, in our storehouses. The enemy establishes
itself under our roof and is ready to our hand. By means of insecticides
defence should be relatively easy.





I have just witnessed a moving spectacle: the last moult of a locust;
the emergence of the adult from its larval envelope. It was magnificent.
I am speaking of the Grey Locust, the colossus among our acridians,[10]
which is often seen among the vines in September when the grapes are
gathered. By its size--and it grows as long as a man's finger--it lends
itself to observation better than any other of its tribe.

The larva, disgustingly fat, like a rude sketch of the perfect insect,
is commonly of a tender green; but it is sometimes of a bluish green, a
dirty yellow, or a ruddy brown, or even an ashen grey, like the grey of
the adult cricket. The corselet is strongly keeled and indented, and is
sprinkled with fine white spots. As powerful as in the adult insect, the
hind-leg has a corpulent haunch, streaked with red, and a long shin like
a two-edged saw.

The elytra, which in a few days will extend far beyond the tip of the
abdomen, are at present too small triangular wing-like appendages,
touching along their upper edges, and continuing and emphasising the
keel or ridge of the corselet. Their free ends stick up like the gable
of a house. They remind one of the skirts of a coat, the maker of which
has been ludicrously stingy with the cloth, as they merely cover the
creature's nakedness at the small of the back. Underneath there are two
narrow appendages, the germs of the wings, which are even smaller than
the elytra. The sumptuous, elegant sails of to-morrow are now mere rags,
so miserly in their dimensions as to be absolutely grotesque. What will
emerge from these miserable coverings? A miracle of grace and amplitude.

Let us observe the whole process in detail. Feeling itself ripe for
transformation, the insect climbs up the wire-gauze cover by means of
its hinder and intermediate limbs. The fore-limbs are folded and crossed
on the breast, and are not employed in supporting the insect, which
hangs in a reversed position, the back downwards. The triangular
winglets, the sheaths of the elytra, open along their line of juncture
and separate laterally; the two narrow blades, which contain the wings,
rise in the centre of the interval and slightly diverge. The proper
position for the process of moulting has now been assumed and the proper
stability assured.

The first thing to do is to burst the old skin. Behind the corselet,
under the pointed roof of the prothorax, a series of pulsations is
produced by alternate inflation and deflation. A similar state of
affairs is visible in front of the neck, and probably under the entire
surface of the yielding carapace. The fineness of the membrane at the
articulations enables us to perceive it at these unarmoured points, but
the cuirass of the corselet conceals it in the central portion.

At these points the circulatory reserves of the insect are pulsing in
tidal onsets. Their gradual increase is betrayed by pulsations like
those of a hydraulic ram. Distended by this rush of humours, by this
injection in which the organism concentrates all its forces, the outer
skin finally splits along the line of least resistance which the subtle
previsions of life have prepared. The fissure extends the whole length
of the corselet, opening precisely along the ridge of the keel, as
though the two symmetrical halves had been soldered together.
Unbreakable elsewhere, the envelope has yielded at this median point,
which had remained weaker than the rest of the sheath. The fissure runs
back a little way until it reaches a point between the attachments of
the wings; on the head it runs forward as far as the base of the
antennæ, when it sends a short ramification right and left.

Through this breach the back is seen; quite soft, and very pale, with
scarcely a tinge of grey. Slowly it curves upwards and becomes more and
more strongly hunched; at last it is free.

The head follows, withdrawing itself from its mask, which remains in
place, intact in the smallest detail, but looking very strange with its
great unseeing glassy eyes. The sheaths of the antennæ, without a
wrinkle, without the least derangement, and in their natural place, hang
over this dead, translucid face.

In emerging from their narrow sheaths, which clasped them so tightly and
precisely, the thread-like antennæ have evidently met with no
resistance, or the sheaths would have been turned inside out, or
crumpled out of shape, or wrinkled at least. Without harming the jointed
or knotted covers, the contents, of equal volume and equally knotty,
have slipped out as easily as though they were smooth, slippery objects
sliding out of a loose sheath. The method of extraction is still more
astonishing in the case of the hind-legs.

It is now, however, the turn of the front and intermediate pairs of
legs. They pull out of their gauntlets and leggings without the least
hitch; nothing is torn, nothing buckled; the outer skin is not even
crumpled, and all the tissues remain in their natural position. The
insect is now hanging from the dome of the cover solely by the claws of
the long hind-legs. It hangs in an almost vertical position, the head
downwards, swinging like a pendulum if I touch the cover. Four tiny,
steely claws are its only support. If they gave or unclasped themselves
the insect would be lost, as it is as yet unable to unfurl its enormous
wings; but even had the wings emerged they could not grip the air in
time to save the creature from the consequences of a fall. But the four
claws hold fast; life, before withdrawing from them, left them rigidly
contracted, so that they should support without yielding the struggles
and withdrawals to follow.

Now the wing-covers and wings emerge. These are four narrow strips,
vaguely seamed and furrowed, like strings of rolled tissue-paper. They
are barely a quarter of their final length.

They are so soft that they bend under their own weight, and hang down
the creature's sides in the reverse of their normal position. The free
extremities, which normally point backwards, are now pointing towards
the cricket's head as it hangs reversed. The organs of future flight are
like four leaves of withered foliage shattered by a terrific rainstorm.

A profound transformation is necessary to bring the wings to their final
perfection. The inner changes are already at work; liquids are
solidifying; albuminous secretions are bringing order out of chaos; but
so far no outward sign betrays what is happening in the mysterious
laboratory of the organism. All seems inert and lifeless.

In the meantime the posterior limbs disengage themselves. The great
haunches become visible, streaked on the inner faces with a pale rose,
which rapidly turns to a vivid crimson. Emergence is easy, the thick and
muscular upper portion of the haunch preparing the way for the narrower
part of the limb.

It is otherwise with the shank. This, in the adult insect, is armed
along its whole length by a double series of stiff, steely spines.
Moreover, the lower extremity is terminated by four strong spurs. The
shank forms a veritable saw, but with two parallel sets of teeth; and it
is so strongly made that it may well be compared, the question of size
apart, to the great saw of a quarry-man.

The shank of the larva has the same structure, so that the object to be
extracted is enclosed in a scabbard as awkwardly shaped as itself. Each
spur is enclosed in a similar spur; each tooth engages in the hollow of
a similar tooth, and the sheath is so closely moulded upon the shank
that a no more intimate contact could be obtained by replacing the
envelope by a layer of varnish applied with a brush.

Nevertheless the tibia, long and narrow as it is, issues from its sheath
without catching or sticking anywhere. If I had not repeatedly seen the
operation I could not believe it possible; for the discarded sheath is
absolutely intact from end to end. Neither the terminal spurs nor the
double rows of spines do the slightest damage to the delicate mould. The
long-toothed saw leaves the delicate sheath unbroken, although a puff of
the breath is enough to tear it; the ferocious spurs slip out of it
without leaving so much as a scratch.

I was far from expecting such a result. Having the spiny weapons of the
legs in mind, I imagined that those limbs would moult in scales and
patches, or that the sheathing would rub off like a dead scarf-skin. How
completely the reality surpassed my anticipations!

From the spurs and spines of the sheath, which is as thin as the finest
gold-beaters' skin, the spurs and spines of the leg, which make it a
most formidable weapon, capable of cutting a piece of soft wood, emerge
without the slightest display of violence, without a hitch of any kind;
and the empty skin remains in place. Still clinging by its claws to the
top of the wire cover, it is untorn, unwrinkled, uncreased. Even the
magnifying-glass fails to show a trace of rough usage. Such as the skin
was before the cricket left it, so it is now. The legging of dead skin
remains in its smallest details the exact replica of the living limb.

If any one asked you to extract a saw from a scabbard exactly moulded
upon the steel, and to conduct the operation without the slightest
degree of tearing or scratching, you would laugh at the flagrant
impossibility of the task. But life makes light of such absurdities; it
has its methods of performing the impossible when such methods are
required. The leg of the locust affords us such an instance.

Hard as it is when once free of its sheath, the serrated tibia would
absolutely refuse to leave the latter, so closely does it fit, unless it
were torn to pieces. Yet the difficulty must be evaded, for it is
indispensable that the sheaths of the legs should remain intact, in
order to afford a firm support until the insect is completely
extricated.

The leg in process of liberation is not the leg with which the locust
makes its leaps; it has not as yet the rigidity which it will soon
acquire. It is soft, and eminently flexible. In those portions which the
progress of the moult exposes to view I see the legs bend under the mere
weight of the suspended insect when I tilt the supporting cover. They
are as flexible as two strips of elastic indiarubber. Yet even now
consolidation is progressing, for in a few minutes the proper rigidity
will be acquired.

Further along the limbs, in the portions which the sheathing still
conceals, the legs are certainly softer still, and in the state of
exquisite plasticity--I had almost said fluidity--which allows them to
pass through narrow passages almost as a liquid flows.

The teeth of the saws are already there, but have nothing of their
imminent rigidity. With the point of a pen-knife I can partially uncover
a leg and extract the spines from their serrated mould. They are germs
of spines; flexible buds which bend under the slightest pressure and
resume their position the moment the pressure is removed.

These needles point backwards as the leg is drawn out of the sheath; but
they re-erect themselves and solidify as they emerge. I am witnessing
not the mere removal of leggings from limbs already clad in finished
armour, but a kind of creation which amazes one by its promptitude.

Very much in the same way, but with far less delicate precision, the
claws of the crayfish, at the period of the moult, withdraw the soft
flesh of their double fingers from their stony sheath.

Finally the long stilt-like legs are free. They are folded gently
against the furrowed thighs, thus to mature undisturbed. The abdomen
begins to emerge. Its fine tunic-like covering splits, and wrinkles, but
still encloses the extremity of the abdomen, which adheres to the
moulted skin for some little time longer. With the exception of this one
point the entire insect is now uncovered.

It hangs head downwards, like a pendulum, supported by the talons of the
now empty leg-cases. During the whole of the lengthy and meticulous
process the four talons have never yielded. The whole operation has been
conducted with the utmost delicacy and prudence.

The insect hangs motionless, held by the tip of the abdomen. The abdomen
is disproportionately distended; swollen, apparently, by the reserve of
organisable humours which the expansion of the wings and wing-covers
will presently employ. Meanwhile the creature rests and recovers from
its exertions. Twenty minutes of waiting elapse.

Then, exerting the muscles of the back, the suspended insect raises
itself and fixes the talons of the anterior limbs in the empty skin
above it. Never did acrobat, hanging by the toes to the bar of a
trapeze, raise himself with so stupendous a display of strength in the
loins. This gymnastic feat accomplished, the rest is easy.

With the purchase thus obtained the insect rises a little and reaches
the wire gauze, the equivalent of the twig which would be chosen for the
site of the transformation in the open fields. It holds to this with the
four anterior limbs. Then the tip of the abdomen is finally liberated,
and suddenly, shaken by the final struggle, the empty skin falls to the
ground.

This fall is interesting, and reminds me of the persistence with which
the empty husk of the Cigale braves the winds of winter, without falling
from its supporting twig. The transfiguration of the locust takes place
very much as does that of the Cigale. How is it then that the acridian
trusts to a hold so easily broken?

The talons of the skin hold firmly so long as the labour of escape
continues, although one would expect it to shake the firmest grip; yet
they yield at the slightest shock when the labour is terminated. There
is evidently a condition of highly unstable equilibrium; showing once
more with what delicate precision the insect escapes from its sheath.

For want of a better term I said "escape." But the word is ill chosen;
for it implies a certain amount of violence, and no violence must be
employed, on account of the instability of equilibrium already
mentioned. If the insect, shaken by a sudden effort, were to lose its
hold, it would be all up with it. It would slowly shrivel on the spot;
or at best its wings, unable to expand, would remain as miserable scraps
of tissue. The locust does not tear itself away from its sheath; it
delicately insinuates itself out of it--I had almost said flows. It is
as though it were expelled by a gentle pressure.

Let us return to the wings and elytra, which have made no apparent
progress since their emergence from their sheaths. They are still mere
stumps, with fine longitudinal seams; almost like little ropes'-ends.
Their expansion, which will occupy more than three hours, is reserved
for the end, when the insect is completely moulted and in its normal
position.

We have just seen the insect turn head uppermost. This reversal causes
the wings and elytra to fall into their natural position. Extremely
flexible, and yielding to their own weight, they had previously drooped
backwards with their free extremities pointing towards the head of the
insect as it hung reversed.

Now, still by reason of their own weight, their position is rectified
and they point in the normal direction. They are no longer curved like
the petals of a flower; they no longer point the wrong way; but they
retain the same miserable aspect.

In its perfect state the wing is like a fan. A radiating bundle of
strong nervures runs through it in the direction of its length and forms
the framework of the fan, which is readily furled and unfurled. The
intervals are crossed by innumerable cross-nervures of slighter
substance, which make of the whole a network of rectangular meshes. The
elytrum, which is heavier and much less extensive, repeats this
structure.

At present nothing of this mesh-work is visible. Nothing can be seen but
a few wrinkles, a few flexuous furrows, which announce that the stumps
are bundles of tissue cunningly folded and reduced to the smallest
possible volume.

The expansion of the wing begins near the shoulder. Where nothing
precise could be distinguished at the outset we soon perceive a
diaphanous surface subdivided into meshes of beautiful precision.

Little by little, with a deliberation that escapes the magnifier, this
area increases its bounds, at the expense of the shapeless bundle at the
end of the wing. In vain I let my eyes rest on the spot where the
expanding network meets the still shapeless bundle; I can distinguish
nothing. But wait a little, and the fine-meshed tissues will appear with
perfect distinctness.

To judge from this first examination, one would guess that an
organisable fluid is rapidly congealing into a network of nervures; one
seems to be watching a process of crystallisation comparable, in its
rapidity, to that of a saturated saline solution as seen through a
microscope. But no; this is not what is actually happening. Life does
not do its work so abruptly.

I detach a half-developed wing and bring it under the powerful eye of
the microscope. This time I am satisfied. On the confines of the
transparent network, where an extension of that network seems to be
gradually weaving itself out of nothing, I can see that the meshes are
really already in existence. I can plainly recognise the longitudinal
nervures, which are already stiff; and I can also see--pale, and without
relief--the transverse nervures. I find them all in the terminal stump,
and am able to spread out a few of its folds under the microscope.

It is obvious that the wing is not a tissue in the process of making,
through which the procreative energy of the vital juices is shooting its
shuttle; it is a tissue already complete. To be perfect it lacks only
expansion and rigidity, just as a piece of lace or linen needs only to
be ironed.

In three hours or more the explanation is complete. The wings and elytra
stand erect over the locust's back like an immense set of sails; at
first colourless, then of a tender green, like the freshly expanded
wings of the Cigale. I am amazed at their expanse when I think of the
miserable stumps from which they have expanded. How did so much material
contrive to occupy so little space?

There is a story of a grain of hemp-seed that contained all the
body-linen of a princess. Here we have something even more astonishing.
The hemp-seed of the story needed long years to germinate, to multiply,
and at last to give the quantity of hemp required for the trousseau of a
princess; but the germ of the locust's wing has expanded to a
magnificent sail in a few short hours.

Slowly the superb erection composed of the four flat fan-like pinions
assumes rigidity and colour. By to-morrow the colour will have attained
the requisite shade. For the first time the wings close fan-wise and lie
down in their places; the elytra bend over at their outer edges, forming
a flange which lies snugly over the flanks. The transformation is
complete. Now the great locust has only to harden its tissues a little
longer and to tan the grey of its costume in the ecstasy of the
sunshine. Let us leave it to its happiness, and return to an earlier
moment.

The four stumps which emerge from their coverings shortly after the
rupture of the corselet along its median line contain, as we have seen,
the wings and elytra with their innumerable nervures. If not perfect,
at least the general plan is complete, with all its innumerable details.
To expand these miserable bundles and convert them into an ample set of
sails it is enough that the organism, acting like a force-pump, should
force into the channels already prepared a stream of humours kept in
reserve for this moment and this purpose, the most laborious of the
whole process. As the capillary channels are prepared in advance a
slight injection of fluid is sufficient to cause expansion.

But what were these four bundles of tissue while still enclosed in their
sheaths? Are the wing-sheaths and the triangular winglets of the larva
the moulds whose folds, wrinkles, and sinuosities form their contents in
their own image, and so weave the network of the future wings and
wing-covers?

Were they really moulds we might for a moment be satisfied. We might
tell ourselves: It is quite a simple matter that the thing moulded
should conform to the cavity of the mould. But the simplicity is only
apparent, for the mould in its turn must somewhere derive the requisite
and inextricable complexity. We need not go so far back; we should only
be in darkness. Let us keep to the observable facts.

I examine with a magnifying-glass one of the triangular coat-tails of a
larva on the point of transformation. I see a bundle of moderately
strong nervures radiating fan-wise. I see other nervures in the
intervals, pale and very fine. Finally, still more delicate, and running
transversely, a number of very short nervures complete the pattern.

Certainly this resembles a rough sketch of the future wing-case; but
how different from the mature structure! The disposition of the
radiating nervures, the skeleton of the structure, is not at all the
same; the network formed by the cross-nervures gives no idea whatever of
the complex final arrangement. The rudimentary is succeeded by the
infinitely complex; the clumsy by the infinitely perfect, and the same
is true of the sheath of the wing and the final condition of its
contents, the perfect wing.

It is perfectly evident, when we have the preparatory as well as the
final condition of the wing before our eyes, that the wing-sheath of the
larva is not a simple mould which elaborates the tissue enclosed in its
own image and fashions the wing after the complexities of its own
cavity.

The future wing is not contained in the sheath as a bundle, which will
astonish us, when expanded, by the extent and extreme complication of
its surface. Or, to speak more exactly, it is there, but in a potential
state. Before becoming an actual thing it is a virtual thing which is
not yet, but is capable of becoming. It is there as the oak is inside
the acorn.

A fine transparent cushion limits the free edge of the embryo wing and
the embryo wing-case. Under a powerful microscope we can perceive
therein a few doubtful lineaments of the future lace-work. This might
well be the factory in which life will shortly set its materials in
movement. Nothing more is visible; nothing that will make us foresee the
prodigious network in which each mesh must have its form and place
predetermined with geometrical exactitude.

In order that the organisable material can shape itself as a sheet of
gauze and describe the inextricable labyrinth of the nervuration, there
must be something better and more wonderful than a mould. There is a
prototypical plan, an ideal pattern, which imposes a precise position
upon each atom of the tissue. Before the material commences to circulate
the configuration is already virtually traced, the courses of the
plastic currents are already mapped out. The stones of our buildings
co-ordinate according to the considered plan of the architect; they form
an ideal assemblage before they exist as a concrete assemblage.

Similarly, the wing of a cricket, that wonderful piece of lace-work
emerging from a tiny sheath, speaks to us of another Architect, the
author of the plans according to which life labours.

The genesis of living creatures offers to our contemplation an infinity
of wonders far greater than this matter of a locust's wing; but in
general they pass unperceived, obscured as they are by the veil of time.

Time, in the deliberation of mysteries, deprives us of the most
astonishing of spectacles except our spirits be endowed with a tenacious
patience. Here by exception the fact is accomplished with a swiftness
that forces the attention.

Whosoever would gain, without wearisome delays, a glimpse of the
inconceivable dexterity with which the forces of life can labour, has
only to consider the great locust of the vineyard. The insect will show
him that which is hidden from our curiosity by extreme deliberation in
the germinating seed, the opening leaf, and the budding flower. We
cannot see the grass grow; but we can watch the growth of the locust's
wings.

Amazement seizes upon us before this sublime phantasmagoria of the grain
of hemp which in a few hours has been transmuted into the finest cloth.
What a mighty artist is Life, shooting her shuttle to weave the wings of
the locust--one of those insignificant insects of whom long ago Pliny
said: _In his tam parcis, ferè nullis, quae vis, quae sapientia, quam
inextricabilis perfectio!_

How truly was the old naturalist inspired! Let us repeat with him: "What
power, what wisdom, what inconceivable perfection in this least of
secrets that the vineyard locust has shown us!"

I have heard that a learned inquirer, for whom life is only a conflict
of physical and chemical forces, does not despair of one day obtaining
artificially organisable matter--_protoplasm_, as the official jargon
has it. If it were in my power I should hasten to satisfy this ambitious
gentleman.

But so be it: you have really prepared protoplasm. By force of
meditation, profound study, minute care, impregnable patience, your
desire is realised: you have extracted from your apparatus an albuminous
slime, easily corruptible and stinking like the devil at the end of a
few days: in short, a nastiness. What are you going to do with it?

Organise something? Will you give it the structure of a living edifice?
Will you inject it with a hypodermic syringe between two impalpable
plates to obtain were it only the wing of a fly?

That is very much what the locust does. It injects its protoplasm
between the two surfaces of an embryo organ, and the material forms a
wing-cover, because it finds as guide the ideal archetype of which I
spoke but now. It is controlled in the labyrinth of its course by a
device anterior to the injection: anterior to the material itself.

This archetype, the co-ordinator of forms; this primordial regulator;
have you got it on the end of your syringe? No! Then throw away your
product. Life will never spring from that chemical filth.





The orthodox denomination of this insect is _Melolontha fullo_, Lin. It
does not answer, I am very well aware, to be difficult in matters of
nomenclature; make a noise of some sort, affix a Latin termination, and
you will have, as far as euphony goes, the equivalent of many of the
tickets pasted in the entomologist's specimen boxes. The cacophony would
be excusable if the barbarous term signified nothing but the creature
signified; but as a rule this name possesses, hidden in its Greek or
other roots, a certain meaning in which the novice hopes to find
instruction.

The hope is a delusion. The learned term refers to subtleties difficult
to comprehend, and of very indifferent importance. Too often it leads
the student astray, giving him glimpses that have nothing whatever in
common with the truth as we know it from observation. Very often the
errors implied by such names are flagrant; sometimes the allusions are
ridiculous, grotesque, or merely imbecile. So long as they have a decent
sound, how infinitely preferable are locutions in which etymology finds
nothing to dissect! Of such would be the word _fullo_, were it not that
it already has a meaning which immediately occurs to the mind. This
Latin expression means a _fuller_; a person who kneads and presses cloth
under a stream of water, making it flexible and ridding it of the
asperities of weaving. What connection has the subject of this chapter
with the fuller of cloth? I may puzzle my head in vain: no acceptable
reply will occur to me.

The term _fullo_ as applied to an insect is found in Pliny. In one
chapter the great naturalist treats of remedies against jaundice,
fevers, and dropsy. A little of everything enters into this antique
pharmacy: the longest tooth of a black dog; the nose of a mouse wrapped
in a pink cloth; the right eye of a green lizard torn from the living
animal and placed in a bag of kid-skin; the heart of a serpent, cut out
with the left hand; the four articulations of the tail of a scorpion,
including the dart, wrapped tightly in a black cloth, so that for three
days the sick man can see neither the remedy nor him that applies it;
and a number of other extravagances. We may well close the book, alarmed
at the slough of the imbecility whence the art of healing has come down
to us.

In the midst of these imbecilities, the preludes of medicine, we find a
mention of the "fuller." _Tertium qui vocatur fullo, albis guttis,
dissectum utrique lacerto adalligant_, says the text. To treat fevers
divide the fuller beetle in two parts and apply half under the right arm
and half under the left.


Now what did the ancient naturalist mean by the term "fuller beetle"? We
do not precisely know. The qualification _albis guttis_, white spots,
would fit the Pine-chafer well enough, but it is not sufficient to
make us certain. Pliny himself does not seem to have been very certain
of the identity of the remedy. In his time men's eyes had not yet
learned to see the insect world. Insects were too small; they were well
enough for amusing children, who would tie them to the end of a long
thread and make them walk in circles, but they were not worthy of
occupying the attention of a self-respecting man.

Pliny apparently derived the word from the country-folk, always poor
observers and inclined to extravagant denominations. The scholar
accepted the rural locution, the work perhaps of the imagination of
childhood, and applied it at hazard without informing himself more
particularly. The word came down to us embalmed with age; our modern
naturalists have accepted it, and thus one of our handsomest insects has
become the "fuller." The majesty of antiquity has consecrated the
strange appellation.

In spite of all my respect for the antique, I cannot myself accept the
term "fuller," because under the circumstances it is absurd. Common
sense should be considered before the aberrations of nomenclature. Why
not call our subject the Pine-chafer, in reference to the beloved tree,
the paradise of the insect during the two or three weeks of its aerial
life? Nothing could be simpler, or more appropriate, to give the better
reason last.

We have to wander for ages in the night of absurdity before we reach the
radiant light of the truth. All our sciences witness to this fact; even
the science of numbers. Try to add a column of Roman figures; you will
abandon the task, stupefied by the confusion of symbols; and will
recognise what a revolution was made in arithmetic by the discovery of
the zero. Like the egg of Columbus, it was a very little thing, but it
had to be thought of.

While hoping that the future will sink the unfortunate "fuller" in
oblivion, we will use the term "pine chafer" between ourselves. Under
that name no one can possibly mistake the insect in question, which
frequents the pine-tree only.

It has a handsome and dignified appearance, rivalling that of _Oryctes
nasicornis_. Its costume, if it has not the metallic splendour dear to
the Scarabæi, the Buprestes and the rose-beetles, is at least unusually
elegant. A black or chestnut background is thickly sown with
capriciously shaped spots of white velvet; a fashion both modest and
handsome.

The male bears at the end of his short antennæ a kind of plume
consisting of seven large superimposed plates or leaves, which, opening
and closing like the sticks of a fan, betray the emotions that possess
him. At first sight it seems that this magnificent foliage must form a
sense-organ of great perfection, capable of perceiving subtle odours, or
almost inaudible vibrations of the air, or other phenomena to which our
senses fail to respond; but the female warns us that we must not place
too much reliance on such ideas; for although her maternal duties demand
a degree of impressionability at least as great as that of the male, yet
the plumes of her antennæ are extremely meagre, containing only six
narrow leaves.

What then is the use of the enormous fan-like structure of the male
antennæ? The seven-leaved apparatus is for the Pine-chafer what his long
vibrating horns are to the Cerambyx and the panoply of the head to the
Onthophagus and the forked antlers of the mandibles to the Stag-beetle.
Each decks himself after his manner in these nuptial extravagances.

This handsome chafer appears towards the summer solstice, almost
simultaneously with the first Cigales. The punctuality of its appearance
gives it a place in the entomological calendar, which is no less
punctual than that of the seasons. When the longest days come, those
days which seem endless and gild the harvests, it never fails to hasten
to its tree. The fires of St. John, reminiscences of the festivals of
the Sun, which the children light in the village streets, are not more
punctual in their date.

At this season, in the hours of twilight, the Pine-chafer comes every
evening if the weather is fine, to visit the pine-trees in the garden. I
follow its evolutions with my eyes. With a silent flight, not without
spirit, the males especially wheel and wheel about, extending their
great antennary plumes; they go to and fro, to and fro, a procession of
flying shadows upon the pale blue of the sky in which the last light of
day is dying. They settle, take flight again, and once more resume their
busy rounds. What are they doing up there during the fortnight of their
festival?

The answer is evident: they are courting their mates, and they continue
to render their homage until the fall of night. In the morning both
males and females commonly occupy the lower branches. They lie there
isolated, motionless, indifferent to passing events. They do not avoid
the hand about to seize them. Most of them are hanging by their hind
legs and nibbling the pine-needles; they seem to be gently drowsing with
the needles at their mouths. When twilight returns they resume their
frolics.

To watch these frolics in the tops of the trees is hardly possible; let
us try to observe them in captivity. Four pairs are collected in the
morning and placed, with some twigs off the pine-tree, in a spacious;
cage. The sight is hardly worth my attention; deprived of the
possibility of flight, the insects cannot behave as in the open. At most
I see a male from time to time approaching his beloved; he spreads out
the leaves of his antennæ, and agitates them so that they shiver
slightly; he is perhaps informing himself if he is welcome. Thereupon he
puts on his finest airs and exhibits his attainments. It is a useless
display; the female is motionless, as though insensible to these
demonstrations. Captivity has sorrows that are hard to overcome. This
was all that I was able to see. Mating, it appears, must take place
during the later hours of the night, so that I missed the propitious
moment.

One detail in particular interested me. The Pine-chafer emits a musical
note. The female is as gifted as the male. Does the lover make use of
his faculty as a means of seduction and appeal? Does the female answer
the chirp of her _innamorata_ by a similar chirp? That this may be so
under normal conditions, amidst the foliage of the pines, is extremely
probable; but I can make no assertion, as I have never heard anything of
the kind either among the pines or in my laboratory.

The sound is produced by the extremity of the abdomen, which gently
rises and falls, rubbing, as it does so, with its last few segments, the
hinder edge of the wing-covers, which are held firm and motionless.
There is no special equipment on the rubbing surface nor on the surface
rubbed. The magnifying-glass looks in vain for the fine striations
usually found in the musical instruments of the insect world. All is
smooth on either hand. How then is the sound engendered?

Rub the end of the moistened finger on a strip of glass, or a
window-pane, and you will obtain a very audible sound, somewhat
analogous to that emitted by the chafer. Better still, use a scrap of
indiarubber to rub the glass with, and you will reproduce with some
fidelity the sound in question. If the proper rhythm is observed the
imitation is so successful that one might well be deceived by it.

In the musical apparatus of the Pine-chafer the pad of the finger-tip
and the scrap of indiarubber are represented by the soft abdomen of the
insect, and the glass is represented by the blade of the wing-cover,
which forms a thin, rigid plate, easily set in vibration. The
sound-mechanism of the Pine-chafer is thus of the very simplest
description.




INDEX




  Acorn-Weevil, _see_ Elephant-Beetle

  Ameles, _see_ Mantis, the Grey

  Anacreon, on the Cigale

  Ant, fable of the Cigale and the
    Devours the Cigale
    Robs the Cigale

  Arum, Serpent or Putrid, the, attracts and captures insects by means
    of its offensive effluvia


 

  _Balaninus_, _see_ Elephant-Beetle

  Bean, ancestry of

  Bean, _see_ Haricot

  Bean-Weevil, _see_ Weevil

  Bees, victims of Philanthus, _see_ latter

  Bembex

  Bolboceras Gallicus
    Appearance of
    Habits and diet
    Lodging of

  _Bruchus pisi_, see Pea-Weevil

  _Bruchus lenti_, see Lentil-Weevil

  Buprestes


  

  _Cacan_, the

  Capricornis,

  Cerceris, 

  Chrysomela, 

  Cigale, the, 
    Burrow of the, 
    Deafness of the, 
    Diet, 
    Eggs of the, 
    Eggs, hatching of,
    Eggs, method of laying, 
    Enemies of the, 
    Excavation, method of, 
    Fable of Ant and, 
    Larva of the, 
    Larva, habits of, 
    Mechanism of sound, 
    Pupa, emergence from, 
    Song of the, 
    Species of, 

  Cigalo e la Fournigo (Provençal poem)

  Cricket, Field, the, 
    Eggs of,
    Excavations of,
    Fertility of, 
    Song of, 

  Cricket, Italian, the, 
    Appearance of, 
    Song of, 




  Dermestes, victims of arum,

  Dioscorides on the Cigale, 

  Diptera, 

  Dog, its love of stenches, 
    Scent of the, 
    A truffle-hunter, 




  Elephant-Beetle (Balaninus or Acorn-Weevil), 
    Boring acorns, habit of, 
    Eggs, method of laying, 
    Motives in boring, 
    Snout of, 

  Emperor Moth, _see_ Great Peacock Moth

  _Empusa pauperata_, _see_ Mantis

  Eucores


 

  Golden Gardener, the, 
    Cannibal habits of, 
    Courtship of,
    Ferocity of, 
    Nutriment of, 
    Vermin killer, as a,

  Grandville, illustrates La Fontaine's fables, 




  Halictus, 

  Haricot bean, the, 

  Haricot-Weevil, the, _see_ Weevil

  Heredia, J.-M. de,

  Hydnocystus, a fungus, 

  Hymenoptera, habits of, 


 

  La Fontaine, fable of the Cigale and the Ant

  Locust, Grey, the, 
    Larva of, 
    Metamorphosis of, 
    Wing, formation of, 


 

  Mantis, the _Empusa pauperata_, 

  Mantis, the Grey, 

  Mantis, the Praying, 
    Cannibalism of, 
    Courtship, 
    Hunter, as, 
    Nest of, 

  _Melolontha fullo_, _see_ Pine-chafer

  Minotaur, 




  Oak Eggar, the, 
    Experiments as to sense of smell in males, 
    Swarming of males during the mating season, 

  Odynerus, 

  Osmia tricornis, 


 

  Pea, ancestry of the,

  Pea-Weevil, _see_ Weevil

  Peacock Moth, the Great, 
    Appearance of, 
    Experiments as to sense of smell in males, 
  Invasion of house by males,
    Swarming of males,

  Peacock Moth, the Lesser, 

  Phalangist, the, 

  _Philanthus aviporus_, 
    Cocoon of,
    Diet of, 
    Larvæ of, 
    Methods of killing and robbing bees, 
    Motives of robbery, 
    Nest of, 

  _Philanthus coronatus_, 

  _Philanthus raptor_, 

  Pine-chafer, the, 
    Appearance of, 
    Cry of,
    Habits of, 
    Medical qualities of, supposed,
    Name, origin of Latin, 

  Pliny, on the Pine-chafer, 




  Saprinidæ, victims of arum, 

  Sapromyzon, the,

  Scarabæus, _see_ Golden Scarabæus

  Scent in Insects, _see_ Peacock Moth,
    Oak Eggar, Bolboceras Gallicus, arum, putrid

  Scolia, 

  Sisyphus, legend of, 

  Sisyphus Beetle, the, 
    Burrow of, 
    Larva of, 
    Mating of, 
    Paternal instinct of 
    Pellet of, 


 

  Tachytus, 

  _Tigno_, nest of Mantis,

  Truffle-Beetle,

  Truffle-Dog, 


  

  Weevil, Acorn, _see_ Elephant-Beetle

  Weevil, the Lentil, 

  Weevil, the Haricot, 
    Habits of, 
    Invasion of, 
    Larvæ, 

  Weevil, the Pea, 
    Description of,
    Enemy, its chief, 2
    Habits, 2
      (Deductions to be drawn from), 
  Larvæ of,




FOOTNOTES:

[Footnote 1: Whether the Cigale is absolutely deaf or not, it is certain
that one Cigale would be able to perceive another's cry. The vibrations
of the male Cigale's cry would cause a resonance, a vibration, in the
body cavities of other male Cigales, and to a lesser extent in the
smaller cavities in the bodies of the females. Other sounds would cause
a slight shock, if loud enough, but not a perceptible vibration May not
this vibration--felt as in a cathedral we feel the vibrations of the
organ-pipes in the bones of the chest and head or on the covers of the
hymn-book in our hands--serve to keep the insects together, and enable
the females to keep within sight of the males? The sight of an insect is
in one sense poor--it consists of a kind of mosaic picture, and for one
insect to distinguish another clearly the distance between them must not
be very great. Certain gregarious birds and fish whose colouring is
protective have a habit of showing their white bellies as they swerve on
changing their direction. These signals help to keep the flock together.
The white scut of the rabbit and of certain deer is a signal for other
deer or rabbits to follow a frightened flock. It is obviously to the
advantage of the Cigale to follow a gregarious habit, if only for
purposes of propagation, for this would be facilitated by the sexes
keeping together, and, deaf or otherwise, the vibrations of its cry
would enable it to do so. It would be easy to show _a priori_ that the
perception of such vibrations must cause the insect pleasure, as they
stimulate a nervous structure attuned to the perception or capable of
the production of certain complex vibrations. The discord of the cry is
caused by the fact that it consists of a number of vibrations of
different pitch. Some would set the contents of the male resonating
cavities in vibration; others would affect the less regular cavities in
the thorax of the female. We might compare the Cigale's cry to a
sheep-bell. That it is felt and not heard explains its loudness and its
grating quality. A Cigale with the resonating cavities destroyed would
possibly be lost. The experiment is worth trying.--[TRANS.]]

[Footnote 2: It is not easy to understand why the Mantis should paralyse
the cricket with terror while the latter will immediately escape when
threatened by other enemies. As many species of Mantis exactly mimic
sticks and leaves when motionless for purposes of defence, is it not
possible that they mimic their surroundings for purposes of offence as
well? It is easy and natural to say that the Mantis presents a
terrifying aspect. It does to us, by association; but how can we say
that it represents anything of the sort to the probably hypnotic or
automatic consciousness of the cricket? What does it really represent,
as seen from below? A twig, terminating in a bud, with two branching
twigs growing from it, and a harmless nondescript fly or butterfly
perched on the back of it. The combination of a familiar sight and a
threatening sound would very plausibly result in cautious immobility. As
for its instantaneous assumption of the pose, to move instantaneously is
the next best thing to not moving at all. It is less likely to startle
than a slow movement. Twigs which have been bent get suddenly released
in the natural course of events; they do not move slowly. The
instantaneous appearance of a twig where no twig was before may possibly
give the victim pause; it may halt out of caution, not out of
terror.--[TRANS.]]

[Footnote 3: The word "butterfly" is here used, as is the French
_papillon_, as a general term for all Lepidoptera; the insect in
question is of course a moth.]

[Footnote 4: Now classified as _Lasiocampa quercus_.--[TRANS.]]

[Footnote 5: _Rabasso_ is the Provençal name for the truffle; hence a
truffle-hunter is known as a _rabassier_.]

[Footnote 6: Since these lines were written I have found it consuming
one of the true tuberaceæ, the _Tuber Requienii_, Tul., of the size of a
cherry.]

[Footnote 7: The difficulty in conceiving this theory lies in the fact
that the waves travel in straight lines. On the other hand, matter in a
state of degradation may expel particles highly energised and of
enormous velocity. Most antennæ are covered with hairs of inconceivable
fineness; others may contain cavities of almost infinite minuteness. Is
it not thinkable that they are able to detect, in the gaseous
atmosphere, floating particles that are not gaseous? This would not
prevent the specialisation of antennæ as mere feelers in some insects
and crustaceans. The difficulty of such a supposition lies in the
fact of discrimination; but if we did not possess a sense of taste or
smell discrimination would seem inconceivable in their case
also.--[TRANS.]]

[Footnote 8: This classification is now superseded; the Pea and Bean
Weevils--_Bruchus pisi_ and _Bruchus lenti_--are classed as Bruchidæ, in
the series of Phytophaga. Most of the other weevils are classed as
Curculionidæ, series Rhyncophora.--[TRANS.]]

[Footnote 9: The Christmas number (_Noël_) of the _Annales politiques
et littéraires: Les Enfants jugés par leurs pères_, 1901.]

[Footnote 10: The American usage is to call acridians grasshoppers and
Locustidæ locusts. The English usage is to call Locustidæ grasshoppers
and acridians locusts. The Biblical locust is an acridian.]






CONTENTS

       CHAPTER                                    PAGE

    I. First Flight                                  1
   II. The House of the Rose                        14
  III. The Lake                                     25
   IV. Effie and Bobbie                             43
    V. The Acrobat                                  60
   VI. Puck                                         72
  VII. In the Toils                                 87
 VIII. The Bug and the Butterfly                   104
   IX. The Lost Leg                                113
    X. The Wonders of the Night                    133
   XI. With the Sprite                             153
  XII. Alois, Ladybird and Poet                    163
 XIII. The Fortress                                172
  XIV. The Sentinel                                182
   XV. The Warning                                 194
  XVI. The Battle                                  204
 XVII. The Queen's Friend                          218





The elderly lady-bee who helped the baby-bee Maya when she awoke
to life and slipped from her cell was called Cassandra and
commanded great respect in the hive. Those were exciting days.
A rebellion had broken out in the nation of bees, which the
queen was unable to suppress.

While the experienced Cassandra wiped Maya's large bright eyes
and tried as best she could to arrange her delicate wings, the
big hive hummed and buzzed like a threatening thunderstorm, and
the baby-bee found it very warm and said so to her companion.

Cassandra looked about troubled, without replying. It astonished
her that the child so soon found something to criticize. But
really the child was right: the heat and the pushing and
crowding were almost unbearable. Maya saw an endless succession
of bees go by in such swarming haste that sometimes one climbed
up and over another, or several rolled past together clotted in
a ball.

Once the queen-bee approached. Cassandra and Maya were
jostled aside. A drone, a friendly young fellow of immaculate
appearance, came to their assistance. He nodded to Maya and
stroked the shining hairs on his breast rather nervously with
his foreleg. (The bees use their forelegs as arms and hands.)

"The crash will come," he said to Cassandra. "The revolutionists
will leave the city. A new queen has already been proclaimed."

Cassandra scarcely noticed him. She did not even thank him for
his help, and Maya felt keenly conscious that the old lady was
not a bit nice to the young gentleman. The child was a little
afraid to ask questions, the impressions were coming so thick
and fast; they threatened to overwhelm her. The general
excitement got into her blood, and she set up a fine, distinct
buzzing.

"What do you mean by that?" said Cassandra. "Isn't there noise
enough as it is?"

Maya subsided at once, and looked at Cassandra questioningly.

"Come here, child, we'll see if we cannot quiet down a bit."
Cassandra took Maya by her gleaming wings, which were still soft
and new and marvelously transparent, and shoved her into an
almost deserted corner beside a few honeycombs filled with
honey.

Maya stood still and held on to one of the cells.

"It smells delicious here," she observed.

Her remark seemed to fluster the old lady again.

"You must learn to wait, child," she replied. "I have brought up
several hundred young bees this spring and given them lessons
for their first flight, but I haven't come across another one
that was as pert and forward as you are. You seem to be an
exceptional nature."

Maya blushed and stuck the two dainty fingers of her hand in her
mouth.

"Exceptional nature--what is an exceptional nature?" she asked
shyly.

"Oh, _that's_ not nice," cried Cassandra, referring not to
Maya's question, which she had scarcely heeded, but to the
child's sticking her fingers in her mouth. "Now, listen. Listen
very carefully to what I am going to tell you. I can devote only
a short time to you. Other baby-bees have already slipped out,
and the only helper I have on this floor is Turka, and Turka is
dreadfully overworked and for the last few days has been
complaining of a buzzing in her ears. Sit down here."

Maya obeyed, with great brown eyes fastened on her teacher.

"The first rule that a young bee must learn," said Cassandra,
and sighed, "is that every bee, in whatever it thinks and does,
must be like the other bees and must always have the good of all
in mind. In our order of society, which we have held to be the
right one from time immemorial and which couldn't have been
better preserved than it has been, this rule is the one
fundamental basis for the well-being of the state. To-morrow you
will fly out of the hive, an older bee will accompany you. At
first you will be allowed to fly only short stretches and you
will have to observe everything, very carefully, so that you can
find your way back home again. Your companion will show you the
hundred flowers and blossoms that yield the best nectar. You'll
have to learn them by heart. This is something no bee can escape
doing.-- Here, you may as well learn the first line right
away--clover and honeysuckle. Repeat it. Say 'clover and
honeysuckle.'"

"I can't," said little Maya. "It's awfully hard. I'll see the
flowers later anyway."

Cassandra opened her old eyes wide and shook her head.

"You'll come to a bad end," she sighed. "I can foresee that
already."

"Am I supposed later on to gather nectar all day long?" asked
Maya.

Cassandra fetched a deep sigh and gazed at the baby-bee
seriously and sadly. She seemed to be thinking of her own
toilsome life--toil from beginning to end, nothing but toil.
Then she spoke in a changed voice, with a loving look in her
eyes for the child.

"My dear little Maya, there will be other things in your
life--the sunshine, lofty green trees, flowery heaths, lakes of
silver, rushing, glistening waterways, the heavens blue and
radiant, and perhaps even human beings, the highest and most
perfect of Nature's creations. Because of all these glories your
work will become a joy. Just think--all that lies ahead of you,
dear heart. You have good reason to be happy."

"I'm so glad," said Maya, "that's what I want to be."

Cassandra smiled kindly. In that instant--why, she did not
know--she conceived a peculiar affection for the little bee,
such as she could not recall ever having felt for any child-bee
before. And that, probably, is how it came about that she told
Maya more than a bee usually hears on the first day of its life.
She gave her various special bits of advice, warned her against
the dangers of the wicked world, and named the bees' most
dangerous enemies. At the end she spoke long of human beings,
and implanted the first love for them in the child's heart and
the germ of a great longing to know them.

"Be polite and agreeable to every insect you meet," she said in
conclusion, "then you will learn more from them than I have told
you to-day. But beware of the wasps and hornets. The hornets are
our most formidable enemy, and the wickedest, and the wasps are
a useless tribe of thieves, without home or religion. We are a
stronger, more powerful nation, while they steal and murder
wherever they can. You may use your sting upon insects, to
defend yourself and inspire respect, but if you insert it in a
warm-blooded animal, especially a human being, you will die,
because it will remain sticking in the skin and will break off.
So do not sting warm-blooded creatures except in dire need, and
then do it without flinching or fear of death. For it is to our
courage as well as our wisdom that we bees owe the universal
respect and esteem in which we are held. And now good-by, Maya
dear. Good luck to you. Be faithful to your people and your
queen."

The little bee nodded yes, and returned her old monitor's kiss
and embrace. She went to bed in a flutter of secret joy and
excitement and could scarcely fall asleep from curiosity. For
the next day she was to know the great, wide world, the sun, the
sky and the flowers.

Meanwhile the bee-city had quieted down. A large part of the
younger bees had now left the kingdom to found a new city; but
for a long time the droning of the great swarm could be heard
outside in the sunlight. It was not from arrogance or evil
intent against the queen that these had quitted; it was because
the population had grown to such a size that there was no longer
room for all the inhabitants, and it was impossible to store a
sufficient food-supply of honey to feed them all over the
winter. You see, according to a government treaty of long
standing, a large part of the honey gathered in summer had to be
delivered up to human beings, who in return assured the welfare
of the bee-state, provided for the peace and safety of the bees,
and gave them shelter against the cold in winter.

"The sun has risen!"

The joyous call sounding in Maya's ears awoke her out of sleep
the next morning. She jumped up and joined a lady working-bee.

"Delighted," said the lady cordially. "You may fly with me."

At the gate, where there was a great pushing and crowding, they
were held up by the sentinels, one of whom gave Maya the
password without which no bee was admitted into the city.

"Be sure to remember it," he said, "and good luck to you."

Outside the city gates, a flood of sunlight assailed the little
bee, a brilliance of green and gold, so rich and warm and
resplendent that she had to close her eyes, not knowing what to
say or do from sheer delight.

"Magnificent! It really is," she said to her companion. "Do we
fly into that?"

"Right ahead!" answered the lady-bee.

Maya raised her little head and moved her pretty new wings.
Suddenly she felt the flying-board on which she had been sitting
sink down, while the ground seemed to be gliding away behind,
and the large green domes of the tree-tops seemed to be coming
toward her.

Her eyes sparkled, her heart rejoiced.

"I am flying," she cried. "It cannot be anything else. What I am
doing must be flying. Why, it's splendid, perfectly splendid!"

"Yes, you're flying," said the lady-bee, who had difficulty in
keeping up with the child. "Those are linden-trees, those toward
which we are flying, the lindens in our castle park. You can
always tell where our city is by those lindens. But you're
flying so fast, Maya."

"Fast?" said Maya. "How can one fly fast enough? Oh, how sweet
the sunshine smells!"

"No," replied her companion, who was rather out of breath, "it's
not the sunshine, it's the flowers that smell.-- But please,
don't go so fast, else I'll drop behind. Besides, at this pace
you won't observe things and be able to find your way back."

But little Maya transported by the sunshine and the joy of
living, did not hear. She felt as though she were darting like
an arrow through a green-shimmering sea of light, to greater and
greater splendor. The bright flowers seemed to call to her, the
still, sunlit distances lured her on, and the blue sky blessed
her joyous young flight.

"Never again will it be as beautiful as it is to-day," she
thought. "I _can't_ turn back. I can't think of anything except
the sun."

Beneath her the gay pictures kept changing, the peaceful
landscape slid by slowly, in broad stretches.

"The sun must be all of gold," thought the baby-bee.

Coming to a large garden, which seemed to rest in blossoming
clouds of cherry-tree, hawthorn, and lilacs, she let herself
down to earth, dead-tired, and dropped in a bed of red tulips,
where she held on to one of the big flowers. With a great sigh
of bliss she pressed herself against the blossom-wall and looked
up to the deep blue of the sky through the gleaming edges of the
flowers.

"Oh, how beautiful it is out here in the great world, a thousand
times more beautiful than in the dark hive. I'll never go back
there again to carry honey or make wax. No, indeed, I'll never
do that. I want to see and know the world in bloom. I am not
like the other bees, my heart is meant for pleasure and
surprises, experiences and adventures. I will not be afraid of
any dangers. Haven't I got strength and courage and a sting?"

She laughed, bubbling over with delight, and took a deep draught
of nectar out of the flower of the tulip.

"Grand," she thought. "It's glorious to be alive."

Ah, if little Maya had had an inkling of the many dangers and
hardships that lay ahead of her, she would certainly have
thought twice. But never dreaming of such things, she stuck to
her resolve.

Soon tiredness overcame her, and she fell asleep. When she
awoke, the sun was gone, twilight lay upon the land. A bit
of alarm, after all. Maya's heart went a little faster.
Hesitatingly she crept out of the flower, which was about to
close up for the night, and hid herself away under a leaf high
up in the top of an old tree, where she went to sleep, thinking
in the utmost confidence:

"I'm not afraid. I won't be afraid right at the very start. The
sun is coming round again; that's certain; Cassandra said so.
The thing to do is to go to sleep quietly and sleep well."

  


By the time Maya awoke, it was full daylight. She felt a little
chilly under her big green leaf, and stiff in her limbs, so that
her first movements were slow and clumsy. Clinging to a vein of
the leaf she let her wings quiver and vibrate, to limber them up
and shake off the dust; then she smoothed her fair hair, wiped
her large eyes clean, and crept, warily, down to the edge of the
leaf, where she paused and looked around.

The glory and the glow of the morning sun were dazzling. Though
Maya's resting-place still lay in cool shadow, the leaves
overhead shone like green gold.

"Oh, you glorious world," thought the little bee.

Slowly, one by one, the experiences of the previous day came
back to her--all the beauties she had seen and all the risks she
had run. She remained firm in her resolve not to return to the
hive. To be sure, when she thought of Cassandra, her heart beat
fast, though it was not very likely that Cassandra would ever
find her.-- No, no, to her there was no joy in forever having to
fly in and out of the hive, carrying honey and making wax. This
was clear, once and for all. She wanted to be happy and free and
enjoy life in her own way. Come what might, she would take the
consequences.

Thus lightly thought Maya, the truth being that she had no real
idea of the things that lay in store for her.

Afar off in the sunshine something glimmered red. A lurking
impatience seized the little bee. Moreover, she felt hungry. So,
courageously, with a loud joyous buzz, she swung out of her
hiding-place into the clear, glistening air and the warm
sunlight, and made straight for the red patch that seemed to nod
and beckon. When she drew near she smelled a perfume so sweet
that it almost robbed her of her senses, and she was hardly able
to reach the large red flower. She let herself down on the
outermost of its curved petals and clung to it tightly. At the
gentle tipping of the petal a shining silver sphere almost as
big as herself, came rolling toward her, transparent and
gleaming in all the colors of the rainbow. Maya was dreadfully
frightened, yet fascinated too by the splendor of the cool
silver sphere, which rolled by her, balanced on the edge of the
petal, leapt into the sunshine, and fell down in the grass. Oh,
oh! The beautiful ball had shivered into a score of wee pearls.
Maya uttered a little cry of terror. But the tiny round
fragments made such a bright, lively glitter in the grass, and
ran down the blades in such twinkling, sparkling little drops
like diamonds in the lamplight, that she was reassured.

She turned towards the inside of the calix. A beetle, a little
smaller than herself, with brown wing-sheaths and a black
breastplate, was sitting at the entrance. He kept his place
unperturbed, and looked at her seriously, though by no means
unamiably. Maya bowed politely.

"Did the ball belong to you?" she asked, and receiving no reply
added: "I am very sorry I threw it down."

"Do you mean the dewdrop?" smiled the beetle, rather superior.
"You needn't worry about that. I had taken a drink already and
my wife never drinks water, she has kidney trouble.-- What are
you doing here?"

"What is this wonderful flower?" asked Maya, not answering the
beetle's question. "Would you be good enough to tell me its
name?"

Remembering Cassandra's advice she was as polite as possible.

The beetle moved his shiny head in his dorsal plate, a thing he
could do easily without the least discomfort, as his head fitted
in perfectly and glided back and forth without a click.

"You seem to be only of yesterday?" he said, and laughed--not
so very politely. Altogether there was something about him that
struck Maya as unrefined. The bees had more culture and better
manners. Yet he seemed to be a good-natured fellow, because,
seeing Maya's blush of embarrassment, he softened to her
childish ignorance.

"It's a rose," he explained indulgently. "So now you know.-- We
moved in four days ago, and since we moved in, it has flourished
wonderfully under our care.-- Won't you come in?"

Maya hesitated, then conquered her misgivings and took a few
steps forward. He pressed aside a bright petal, Maya entered,
and she and the beetle walked beside each other through the
narrow chambers with their subdued light and fragrant walls.

"What a charming home!" exclaimed Maya, genuinely taken with the
place. "The perfume is positively intoxicating."

Maya's admiration pleased the beetle.

"It takes wisdom to know where to live," he said, and smiled
good-naturedly. "'Tell me where you live and I'll tell you what
you're worth,' says an old adage.-- Would you like some nectar?"

"Oh," Maya burst out, "I'd love some."

The beetle nodded and disappeared behind one of the walls. Maya
looked about. She was happy. She pressed her cheeks and little
hands against the dainty red hangings and took deep breaths of
the delicious perfume, in an ecstasy of delight at being
permitted to stop in such a beautiful dwelling.

"It certainly is a great joy to be alive," she thought. "And
there's no comparison between the dingy, crowded stories in
which the bees live and work and this house. The very quiet here
is splendid."

Suddenly there was a loud sound of scolding behind the walls. It
was the beetle growling excitedly in great anger. He seemed to
be hustling and pushing someone along roughly, and Maya caught
the following, in a clear, piping voice full of fright and
mortification.

"Of course, because I'm alone, you dare to lay hands on me. But
wait and see what you get when I bring my associates along. You
are a ruffian. Very well, I am going. But remember, I called you
a ruffian. You'll never forget _that_."

The stranger's emphatic tone, so sharp and vicious, frightened
Maya dreadfully. In a few moments she heard the sound of someone
running out.

The beetle returned and sullenly flung down some nectar.

"An outrage," he said. "You can't escape those vermin anywhere.
They don't allow you a moment's peace."

Maya was so hungry she forgot to thank him and took a mouthful
of nectar and chewed, while the beetle wiped the perspiration
from his forehead and slightly loosened his upper armor so as to
catch his breath.

"Who was that?" mumbled Maya, with her mouth still full.

"Please empty your mouth--finish chewing and swallowing your
nectar. One can't understand a word you say."

Maya obeyed, but the excited owner of the house gave her no time
to repeat her question.

"It was an ant," he burst out angrily. "Do those ants think we
save and store up hour after hour only for them! The idea of
going right into the pantry without a how-do-you-do or a
by-your-leave! It makes me furious. If I didn't realize that the
ill-mannered creatures actually didn't know better, I wouldn't
hesitate a second to call them--thieves!"

At this he suddenly remembered his own manners.

"I beg your pardon," he said, turning to Maya, "I forgot
to introduce myself. My name is Peter, of the family of
rose-beetles."

"My name is Maya," said the little bee shyly. "I am delighted to
make your acquaintance." She looked at Peter closely; he was
bowing repeatedly, and spreading his feelers like two little
brown fans. That pleased Maya immensely.

"You have the most fascinating feelers," she said, "simply
sweet...."

"Well, yes," observed Peter, flattered, "people do think a lot
of them. Would you like to see the other side?"

"If I may."

The rose-beetle turned his fan-shaped feelers to one side and
let a ray of sunlight glide over them.

"Great, don't you think?" he asked.

"I shouldn't have thought anything like them possible," rejoined
Maya. "My own feelers are very plain."

"Well, yes," observed Peter, "to each his own. By way of
compensation you certainly have beautiful eyes, and the color of
your body, the gold of your body, is not to be sneezed at."

Maya beamed. Peter was the first person to tell her she had any
good looks. Life was great. She was happy as a lark, and helped
herself to some more nectar.

"An excellent quality of honey," she remarked.

"Take some more," said Peter, rather amazed by his little
guest's appetite. "Rose-juice of the first vintage. One has to
be careful and not spoil one's stomach. There's some dew left,
too, if you're thirsty."

"Thank you so much," said Maya. "I'd like to fly now, if you
will permit me."

The rose-beetle laughed.

"Flying, always flying," he said. "It's in the blood of you
bees. I don't understand such a restless way of living. There's
some advantage in staying in one place, too, don't you think?"

Peter courteously held the red curtain aside.

"I'll go as far as our observation petal with you," he said. "It
makes an excellent place to fly from."

"Oh, thank you," said Maya, "I can fly from anywhere."

"That's where you have the advantage over me," replied Peter.
"I have some difficulty in unfolding my lower wings." He shook
her hand and held the last curtain aside for her.

"Oh, the blue sky!" rejoiced Maya. "Good-by."

"So long," called Peter, remaining on the top petal to see Maya
rise rapidly straight up to the sky in the golden sunlight and
the clear, pure air of the morning. With a sigh he returned,
pensive, to his cool rose-dwelling, for though it was still
early he was feeling rather warm. He sang his morning song to
himself, and it hummed in the red sheen of the petals and the
radiance of the spring day that slowly mounted and spread over
the blossoming earth.

  Gold and green are field and tree,
    Warm in summer's glow;
  All is bright and fair to see
    While the roses blow.

  What or why the world may be
    Who can guess or know?
  All my world is glad and free
    While the roses blow.

  Brief, they say, my time of glee;
    With the roses I go;
  Yes, but life is good to me
    While the roses blow.




"Dear me," thought Maya, after she had flown off, "oh, dear me,
I forgot to ask Mr. Peter about human beings. A gentleman of his
wide experience could certainly have told me about them. But
perhaps I'll meet one myself to-day." Full of high spirits and
in a happy mood of adventure, she let her bright eyes rove over
the wide landscape that lay spread out below in all its summer
splendor.

She came to a large garden gleaming with a thousand colors. On
her way she met many insects, who sang out greetings, and wished
her a pleasant journey and a good harvest.-- But every time she
met a bee, her heart went pit-a-pat. After all she felt a little
guilty to be idle, and was afraid of coming upon acquaintances.
Soon, however, she saw that the bees paid not the slightest
attention to her.

Then all of a sudden the world seemed to turn upside down. The
heavens shone _below_ her, in endless depths. At first she was
dreadfully frightened; she thought she had flown too far up and
lost her way in the sky. But presently she noticed that the
trees were mirrored on the edge of the terrestrial sky, and to
her entrancement she realized that she was looking at a great
serene basin of water which lay blue and clear in the peaceful
morning. She let herself down close to the surface. There was
her image flying in reflection, the lovely gold of her body
shining at her from the water, her bright wings glittering like
clear glass. And she observed that she held her little legs
properly against her body, as Cassandra had taught her to do.

"It's bliss to be flying over the surface of water like this.
It is, really," she thought.

Big fish and little fish swam about in the clear element, or
seemed to float idly. Maya took good care not to go too close;
she knew there was danger to bees from the race of fishes.

On the opposite shore she was attracted by the water-lilies and
the rushes, the water-lilies with their large round leaves lying
outspread on the water like green plates, and the rushes with
their sun-warmed, reedy stalks.

She picked out a leaf well-concealed under the tall blades of
the rushes. It lay in almost total shade, except for two round
spots like gold coins; the rushes swayed above in the full
sunlight.

"Glorious," said the little bee, "perfectly glorious."

She began to tidy herself. Putting both arms up behind her head
she pulled it forward as if to tear it off, but was careful not
to pull too hard, just enough to scrape away the dust; then,
with her little hind legs, she stroked and dragged down her
wing-sheaths, which sprang back in position looking beautifully
bright and glossy.

Just as she had completed her toilet a small steely blue-bottle
came and alighted on the leaf beside her. He looked at her in
surprise.

"What are you doing here on my leaf?" he demanded.

Maya was startled.

"Is there any objection to a person's just resting here a moment
or two?"

Maya remembered Cassandra's telling her that the nation of bees
commanded great respect in the insect world. Now she was going
to see if it was true; she was going to see if she, Maya, could
compel respect. Nevertheless her heart beat a little faster
because her tone had been very loud and peremptory.

But actually the blue-bottle was frightened. He showed it
plainly. When he saw that Maya wasn't going to let anyone lay
down the law to her he backed down. With a surly buzz he swung
himself on to a blade that curved above Maya's leaf, and said in
a much politer tone, talking down to her out of the sunshine:

"You ought to be working. As a bee you certainly ought. But if
you want to rest, all right. I'll wait here."

"There are plenty of leaves," observed Maya.

"All rented," said the blue-bottle. "Now-a-days one is happy to
be able to call a piece of ground one's own. If my predecessor
hadn't been snapped up by a frog two days ago, I should still be
without a proper place to live in. It's not very pleasant to
have to hunt up a different lodging every night. Not everyone
has such a well-ordered state as you bees. But permit me to
introduce myself. My name is Jack Christopher."

Maya was silent with terror, thinking how awful it must be to
fall into the clutches of a frog.

"Are there many frogs in the lake?" she asked and drew to the
very middle of the leaf so as not to be seen from the water.

The blue-bottle laughed.

"You are giving yourself unnecessary trouble," he jeered. "The
frog can see you from below when the sun shines, because then
the leaf is transparent. He sees you sitting on my leaf,
perfectly."

Beset by the awful idea that maybe a big frog was squatting
right under her leaf staring at her with his bulging hungry
eyes, Maya was about to fly off when something dreadful
happened, something for which she was totally unprepared. In the
confusion of the first moment she could not make out just
exactly what _was_ happening. She only heard a loud rustling
like the wind in dry leaves, then a singing whistle, a loud
angry hunter's cry. And a fine, transparent shadow glided over
her leaf. Now she saw--saw fully, and her heart stood still in
terror. A great, glittering dragon-fly had caught hold of poor
Jack Christopher and held him tight in its large, fangs, sharp
as a knife. The blade of the rush bent low beneath their weight.
Maya could see them hovering above her and also mirrored in the
clear water below. Jack's screams tore her heart. Without
thinking, she cried:

"Let the blue-bottle go, at once, whoever you are. You have no
right to interfere with people's habits. You have no right to be
so arbitrary."

The dragon-fly released Jack from its fangs, but still held him
fast with its arms, and turned its head toward Maya. She was
fearfully frightened by its large, grave eyes and vicious
pincers, but the glittering of its body and wings fascinated
her. They flashed like glass and water and precious stones. The
horrifying thing was its huge size. How could she have been so
bold? She was all a-tremble.

"Why, what's the matter, child?" The dragon-fly's tone,
surprisingly, was quite friendly.

"Let him go," cried Maya, and tears came into her eyes. "His
name is Jack Christopher."

The dragon-fly smiled.

"Why, little one?" it said, putting on an interested air, though
most condescending.

Maya stammered helplessly:

"Oh, he's such a nice, elegant gentleman, and he's never done
you any harm so far as I know."

The dragon-fly regarded Jack Christopher contemplatively.

"Yes, he _is_ a dear little fellow," it replied tenderly
and--bit Jack's head off.

Maya thought she was losing her senses. For a long time she
couldn't utter a sound. In horror she listened to the munching
and crunching above her as the body of Jack Christopher the
blue-bottle was being dismembered.

"Don't put on so," said the dragon-fly with its mouth full,
chewing. "Your sensitiveness doesn't impress me. Are you bees
any better? What do you do? Evidently you are very young still
and haven't looked about in your own house. When the massacre of
the drones takes place in the summer, the rest of the world is
no less shocked and horrified, and _I_ think with greater
justification."

Maya asked:

"Have you finished up there?" She did not dare to raise her
eyes.

"One leg still left," replied the dragon-fly.

"Do please swallow it. Then I'll answer you," cried Maya, who
knew that the drones in the hive _had_ to be killed off in the
summer, and was provoked by the dragon-fly's stupidity. "But
don't you dare to come a step closer. If you do I'll use my
sting on you."

Little Maya had really lost her temper. It was the first time
she had mentioned her sting and the first time she felt glad
that she possessed the weapon.

The dragon-fly threw her a wicked glance. It had finished its
meal and sat with its head slightly ducked, fixing Maya with its
eyes and looking like a beast of prey about to pounce. The
little bee was quite calm now. Where she got her courage from
she couldn't have told, but she was no longer afraid. She set up
a very fine clear buzzing as she had once heard a sentinel do
when a wasp came near the entrance of the hive.

The dragon-fly said slowly and threateningly:

"Dragon-flies live on the best terms with the nation of bees."

"Very sensible in them," flashed Maya.

"Do you mean to insinuate that I am afraid of you--I of you?"
With a jerk the dragon-fly let go of the rush, which sprang back
into its former position, and flew off with a whirr and sparkle
of its wings, straight down to the surface of the water, where
it made a superb appearance reflected in the mirror of the lake.
You'd have thought there were two dragon-flies. Both moved their
crystal wings so swiftly and finely that it seemed as though a
brilliant sheen of silver were streaming around them.

Maya quite forgot her grief over poor Jack Christopher and all
sense of her own danger.

"How lovely! How lovely!" she cried enthusiastically, clapping
her hands.

"Do you mean me?" The dragon-fly spoke in astonishment, but
quickly added: "Yes, I must admit I am fairly presentable.
Yesterday I was flying along the brook, and you should have
heard some human beings who were lying on the bank rave
over me."

"Human beings!" exclaimed Maya. "Oh my, did you see human
beings?"

"Of course," answered the dragon-fly. "But you'll be very
interested to know my name, I'm sure. My name is Loveydear,
of the order Odonata, of the family Libellulid?"

"Oh, do tell me about human beings," implored Maya, after she
had introduced herself.

The dragon-fly seemed won over. She seated herself on the leaf
beside Maya. And the little bee let her, knowing Miss Loveydear
would be careful not to come too close.

"Have human beings a sting?" she asked.

"Good gracious, what would they do with a sting! No, they have
worse weapons against us, and they are very dangerous. There
isn't a soul who isn't afraid of them, especially of the little
ones whose two legs show--the boys."

"Do they try to catch you?" asked Maya, breathless with
excitement.

"Yes, can't you understand why?" Miss Loveydear glanced at her
wings. "I have seldom met a human being who hasn't tried to
catch me."

"But why?" asked Maya in a tremor.

"You see," said Miss Loveydear, with a modest smirk and a
drooping, sidewise glance, "there's something attractive about
us dragon-flies. That's the only reason I know. Some members of
our family who let themselves be caught went through the
cruellest tortures and finally died."

"Were they eaten up?"

"No, no, not exactly that," said Miss Loveydear comfortingly.
"So far as is known, man does not feed on dragon-flies. But
sometimes he has murderous desires, a lust for killing, which
will probably never be explained. You may not believe it, but
cases have actually occurred of the so-called boy-men catching
dragon-flies and pulling off their legs and wings for pure
pleasure. You doubt it, don't you?"

"Of course I doubt it," cried Maya indignantly.

Miss Loveydear shrugged her glistening shoulders. Her face
looked old with knowledge.

"Oh," she said after a pause, grieving and pale, "if only one
could speak of these things openly. I had a brother who gave
promise of a splendid future, only, I'm sorry to say, he was a
little reckless and dreadfully curious. A boy once threw a net
over him, a net fastened to a long pole.-- Who would dream of a
thing like that? Tell me. Would you?"

"No," said the little bee, "never. I should never have thought
of such a thing."

The dragon-fly looked at her.

"A black cord was tied round his waist between his wings, so
that he could fly, but not fly away, not escape. Each time my
brother thought he had got his liberty, he would be jerked back
horribly within the boy's reach."

Maya shook her head.

"You don't dare even think of it," she whispered.

"If a day passes when I don't think of it," said the dragon-fly,
"I am sure to dream of it. One misfortune followed another. My
brother soon died." Miss Loveydear heaved a deep sigh.

"What did he die of?" asked Maya, in genuine sympathy.

Miss Loveydear could not reply at once. Great tears welled up
and rolled down her cheeks.

"He was stuck in a pocket," she sobbed. "No one can stand being
stuck in a pocket."

"But what is a pocket?" Maya could hardly take in so many new
and awful things all at once.

"A pocket," Miss Loveydear explained, "is a store-room that men
have in their outer hide.-- And what else do you think was in
the pocket when my brother was stuck into it? Oh, the dreadful
company in which my poor brother had to draw his last breath!
You'll never guess!"

"No," said Maya, all in a quiver, "no, I don't think I
can.-- Honey, perhaps?"

"Not likely," observed Miss Loveydear with an air of mingled
importance and distress. "You'll seldom find honey in the
pockets of human beings. I'll tell you.-- A frog was in the
pocket, and a pen-knife, and a carrot. Well?"

"Horrible," whispered Maya.-- "What _is_ a pen-knife?"

"A pen-knife, in a way, is a human being's sting, an artificial
one. They are denied a sting by nature, so they try to imitate
it.-- The frog, thank goodness, was nearing his end. One eye was
gone, one leg was broken, and his lower jaw was dislocated. Yet,
for all that, the moment my brother was stuck in the pocket he
hissed at him out of his crooked mouth:

"'As soon as I am well, I will swallow you.'

"With his remaining eye he glared at my brother, and in the
half-light of the prison you can imagine what an effect the look
he gave him must have had--fearful!-- Then something even more
horrible happened. The pocket was suddenly shaken, my brother
was pressed against the dying frog and his wings stuck to its
cold, wet body. He went off in a faint.-- Oh, the misery of it!
There are no words to describe it."

"How did you find all this out?" Maya was so horrified she could
scarcely frame the question.

"I'll tell you," replied Miss Loveydear. "After a while the boy
got hungry and dug into his pocket for the carrot. It was under
my brother and the frog, and the boy threw them away first.-- I
heard my brother's cry for help, and found him lying beside the
frog on the grass. I reached him only in time to hear the whole
story before he breathed his last. He put his arms round my neck
and kissed me farewell. Then he died--bravely and without
complaining, like a little hero. When his crushed wings had
given their last quiver, I laid an oak leaf over his body and
went to look for a sprig of forget-me-nots to put upon his
grave. 'Sleep well, my little brother,' I cried, and flew off in
the quiet of the evening. I flew toward the two red suns, the
one in the sky and the one in the lake. No one has ever felt as
sad and solemn as I did then.-- Have you ever had a sorrow in
your life? Perhaps you'll tell me about it some other time."

"No," said Maya. "As a matter of fact, until now I have always
been happy."

"You may thank your lucky stars," said Miss Loveydear with a
note of disappointment in her voice.

Maya asked about the frog.

"Oh, _him_," said Miss Loveydear. "He, it is presumed, met with
the end he deserved. The hard-heartedness of him, to frighten a
dying person! When I found him on the grass beside my brother,
he was trying to get away. But on account of his broken leg and
one eye gone, all he could do was hop round in a circle and hop
round in a circle. He looked too comical for words. 'The
stork'll soon get ye,' I called to him as I flew away."

"Poor frog!" said little Maya.

"Poor frog! Poor frog indeed! That's going too far. Pitying a
frog. The idea! To feel sorry for a frog is like clipping your
own wings. You seem to have no principles."

"Perhaps. But it's hard for me to see _any_ one suffer."

"Oh"--Miss Loveydear comforted her--"that's because you're so
young. You'll learn to bear it in time. Cheerio, my dear.-- But
I must be getting into the sunshine. It's pretty cold here.
Good-by!"

A faint rustle and the gleam of a thousand colors, lovely pale
colors like the glints in running water and clear gems.

Miss Loveydear swung through the green rushes out over the
surface of the water. Maya heard her singing in the sunshine.
She stood and listened. It was a fine song, with something of
the melancholy sweetness of a folksong, and it filled the little
bee's heart with mingled happiness and sadness.

  Softly flows the lovely stream
  Touched by morning's rosy gleam
    Through the alders darted,
  Where the rushes bend and sway,
  Where the water-lilies say
    "We are golden-hearted!"

  Warm the scent the west-wind brings,
  Bright the sun upon my wings,
    Joy among the flowers!
  Though my life may not be long,
  Golden summer, take my song!
    Thanks for perfect hours!

"Listen!" a white butterfly called to its friend. "Listen to the
song of the dragon-fly." The light creatures rocked close to
Maya, and rocked away again into the radiant blue day. Then Maya
also lifted her wings, buzzed farewell to the silvery lake, and
flew inland.



When Maya awoke the next morning in the corolla of a blue
canterbury bell, she heard a fine, faint rustling in the air and
felt her blossom-bed quiver as from a tiny, furtive tap-tapping.
Through the open corolla came a damp whiff of grass and earth,
and the air was quite chill. In some apprehension, she took a
little pollen from the yellow stamens, scrupulously performed
her toilet, then, warily, picking her steps, ventured to the
outer edge of the drooping blossom. It was raining! A fine cool
rain was coming down with a light plash, covering everything all
round with millions of bright silver pearls, which clung to the
leaves and flowers, rolled down the green paths of the blades of
grass, and refreshed the brown soil.

What a change in the world! It was the first time in the
child-bee's young life that she had seen rain. It filled her
with wonder; it delighted her. Yet she was a little troubled.
She remembered Cassandra's warning never to fly abroad in the
rain. It must be difficult, she realized, to move your wings
when the drops beat them down. And the cold really hurt, and she
missed the quiet golden sunshine that gladdened the earth and
made it a place free from all care.

It seemed to be very early still. The animal life in the grass
was just beginning. From the concealment of her lofty bluebell
Maya commanded a splendid view of the social life coming awake
beneath. Watching it she forgot, for the moment, her anxiety and
mounting homesickness. It was too amusing for anything to be
safe in a hiding-place, high up, and look down on the doings of
the grass-dwellers below.

Slowly, however, her thoughts went back--back to the home she
had left, to the bee-state, and to the protection of its close
solidarity. There, on this rainy day, the bees would be sitting
together, glad of the day of rest, doing a little construction
here and there on the cells, or feeding the larv? Yet, on the
whole, the hive was very quiet and Sunday-like when it rained.
Only, sometimes messengers would fly out to see how the weather
was and from what quarter the wind was blowing. The queen would
go about her kingdom from story to story, testing things,
bestowing a word of praise or blame, laying an egg here and
there, and bringing happiness with her royal presence wherever
she went. She might pat one of the younger bees on the head to
show her approval of what it had already done, or she might ask
it about its new experiences. How delighted a bee would be to
catch a glance or receive a gracious word from the queen!

Oh, thought Maya, how happy it made you to be able to count
yourself one in a community like that, to feel that everybody
respected you, and you had the powerful protection of the state.
Here, out in the world, lonely and exposed, she ran great risks
of her life. She was cold, too. And supposing the rain were to
keep up! What would she do, how could she find something to eat?
There was scarcely any honey-juice in the canterbury bell, and
the pollen would soon give out.

For the first time Maya realized how necessary the sunshine is
for a life of vagabondage. Hardly anyone would set out on
adventure, she thought, if it weren't for the sunshine. The very
recollection of it was cheering, and she glowed with secret
pride that she had had the daring to start life on her own hook.
The number of things she had already seen and experienced! More,
ever so much more, than the other bees were likely to know in a
whole lifetime. Experience was the most precious thing in life,
worth any sacrifice, she thought.

A troop of migrating ants were passing by, and singing as they
marched through the cool forest of grass. They seemed to be in a
hurry. Their crisp morning song, in rhythm with their march,
touched the little bee's heart with melancholy.

  Few our days on earth shall be,
    Fast the moments flit;
  First-class robbers such as we
    Do not care a bit!

They were extraordinarily well armed and looked saucy, bold and
dangerous.

The song died away under the leaves of the coltsfoot. But some
mischief seemed to have been done there. A rough, hoarse voice
sounded, and the small leaves of a young dandelion were
energetically thrust aside. Maya saw a corpulent blue beetle
push its way out. It looked like a half-sphere of dark metal,
shimmering with lights of blue and green and occasional black.
It may have been two or even three times her size. Its hard
sheath looked as though nothing could destroy it, and its deep
voice positively frightened you.

The song of the soldiers, apparently, had roused him out of
sleep. He was cross. His hair was still rumpled, and he rubbed
the sleep out of his cunning little blue eyes.

"Make way, _I'm_ coming. Make way."

He seemed to think that people should step aside at the mere
announcement of his approach.

"Thank the Lord I'm not in his way," thought Maya, feeling very
safe in her high, swaying nook of concealment. Nevertheless her
heart went pit-a-pat, and she withdrew a little deeper into the
flower-bell.

The beetle moved with a clumsy lurch through the wet grass,
presenting a not exactly elegant appearance. Directly under
Maya's blossom was a withered leaf. Here he stopped, shoved the
leaf aside, and made a step backward. Maya saw a hole in the
ground.

"Well," she thought, all a-gog with curiosity, "the things there
_are_ in the world. I never thought of such a thing. Life's not
long enough for all there is to see."

She kept very quiet. The only sound was the soft pelting of the
rain. Then she heard the beetle calling down the hole:

"If you want to go hunting with me, you'll have to make up your
mind to get right up. It's already bright daylight." He was
feeling so very superior for having waked up first that it was
hard for him to be pleasant.

A few moments passed before the answer came. Then Maya heard a
thin, chirping voice rise out of the hole.

"For goodness' sake, do close the door up there. It's raining
in."

The beetle obeyed. He stood in an expectant attitude, his head
cocked a little to one side, and squinted through the crack.

"Please hurry," he grumbled.

Maya was tense with eagerness to see what sort of a creature
would come out of the hole. She crept so far out on the edge of
the blossom that a drop of rain fell on her shoulder, and gave
her a start. She wiped herself dry.

Below her the withered leaf heaved; a brown insect crept out,
slowly. Maya thought it was the queerest specimen she had ever
seen. It had a plump body, set on extremely thin, slow-moving
legs, and a fearfully thick head, with little upright feelers.
It looked flustered.

"Good morning, Effie dear." The beetle went slim with
politeness. He was all politeness, and his body seemed really
slim. "How did you sleep? How did you sleep, my precious--my
all?"

Effie took his hand rather stonily.

"It can't be, Bobbie," she said. "I can't go with you. We're
creating too much talk."

Poor Bobbie looked quite alarmed.

"I don't understand," he stammered. "I don't understand.-- Is
our new-found happiness to be wrecked by such nonsense? Effie,
think--think the thing over. What do _you_ care _what_ people
say? You have your hole, you can creep into it whenever you
like, and if you go down far enough, you won't hear a syllable."

Effie smiled a sad, superior smile.

"Bobbie, you don't understand. I have my own views in the
matter.-- Besides, there's something else. You have been
exceedingly indelicate. You took advantage of my ignorance. You
let me think you were a rose-beetle and yesterday the snail told
me you are a tumble-bug. A considerable difference! He saw you
engaged in--well, doing something I don't care to mention. I'm
sure you will now admit that I must take back my word."

Bobbie was stunned. When he recovered from the shock he burst
out angrily:

"No, I _don't_ understand. I can't understand. I want to be
loved for myself, and not for my business."

"If only it weren't dung," said Effie offishly, "anything but
dung, I shouldn't be so particular.-- And please remember, I'm
a young widow who lost her husband only three days ago under
the most tragic circumstances--he was gobbled up by the
shrewmouse--and it isn't proper for me to be gadding about.
A young widow should lead a life of complete retirement.
So--good-by."

Pop into her hole went Effie, as though a puff of wind had blown
her away. Maya would never have thought it possible that anyone
could dive into the ground as fast as that.

Effie was gone, and Bobbie stared in blank bewilderment down the
empty dark opening, looking so utterly stupid that Maya had to
laugh.

Finally he roused, and shook his small round head in angry
distress. His feelers drooped dismally like two rain-soaked
fans.

"People now-a-days no longer appreciate fineness of character
and respectability," he sighed. "Effie is heartless. I didn't
dare admit it to myself, but she is, she's absolutely heartless.
But even if she hasn't got the _right feelings_, she ought to
have the _good sense_ to be my wife."

Maya saw the tears come to his eyes, and her heart was seized
with pity.

But the next instant Bobbie stirred. He wiped the tears away
and crept cautiously behind a small mound of earth, which his
friend had probably shoveled out of her dwelling. A little
flesh-colored earthworm was coming along through the grass.
It had the queerest way of propelling itself, by first making
itself long and thin, then short and thick. Its cylinder of a
body consisted of nothing but delicate rings that pushed and
groped forward noiselessly.

Suddenly, startling Maya, Bobbie made one step out of his
hiding-place, caught hold of the worm, bit it in two, and began
calmly to eat the one half, heedless of its desperate wriggling
or the wriggling of the other half in the grass. It was a tiny
little worm.

"Patience," said Bobbie, "it will soon be over."

But while he chewed, his thoughts seemed to revert to Effie, his
Effie, whom he had lost forever and aye, and great tears rolled
down his cheeks.

Maya pitied him from the bottom of her heart.

"Dear me," she thought, "there certainly is a lot of sadness in
the world."

At that moment she saw the half of the worm which Bobbie had set
aside, making a hasty departure.

"Did you _ever_ see the like!" she cried, surprised into such a
loud tone that Bobbie looked around wondering where the sound
had come from.

"Make way!" he called.

"But I'm not in your way," said Maya.

"Where are you then? You must be somewhere."

"Up here. Up above you. In the bluebell."

"I believe you, but I'm no grasshopper. I can't turn my head up
far enough to see you. Why did you scream?"

"The half of the worm is running away."

"Yes," said Bobbie, looking after the retreating fraction, "the
creatures are very lively.-- I've lost my appetite." With that
he threw away the remnant which he was still holding in his hand,
and this worm portion also retreated, in the other direction.

Maya was completely puzzled. But Bobbie seemed to be familiar
with this peculiarity of worms.

"Don't suppose that I always eat worms," he remarked. "You see,
you don't find roses everywhere."

"Tell the little one at least which way its other half ran,"
cried Maya in great excitement.

Bobbie shook his head gravely.

"Those whom fate has rent asunder, let no man join together
again," he observed.-- "Who are you?"

"Maya, of the nation of bees."

"I'm glad to hear it. I have nothing against the bees.-- Why are
you sitting about? Bees don't usually sit about. Have you been
sitting there long?"

"I slept here."

"Indeed!" There was a note of suspicion in Bobbie's voice.
"I hope you slept well, _very_ well. Did you just wake up?"

"Yes," said Maya, who had shrewdly guessed that Bobbie would not
like her having overheard his conversation with Effie, the
cricket, and did not want to hurt his feelings again.

Bobbie ran hither and thither trying to look up and see Maya.

"Wait," he said. "If I raise myself on my hind legs and lean
against that blade of grass I'll be able to see you, and you'll
be able to look into my eyes. You want to, don't you?"

"Why, I do indeed. I'd like to very much."

Bobbie found a suitable prop, the stem of a buttercup. The
flower tipped a little to one side so that Maya could see him
perfectly as he raised himself on his hind legs and looked up at
her. She thought he had a nice, dear, friendly face--but not so
very young any more and cheeks rather too plump. He bowed,
setting the buttercup a-rocking, and introduced himself:

"Bobbie, of the family of rose-beetles."

Maya had to laugh to herself. She knew very well he was not a
rose-beetle; he was a dung-beetle. But she passed the matter
over in silence, not caring to mortify him.

"Don't you mind the rain?" she asked.

"Oh, no. I'm accustomed to the rain--from the roses, you know.
It's usually raining there."

Maya thought to herself:

"After all I must punish him a little for his brazen lies. He's
so frightfully vain."

"Bobbie," she said with a sly smile, "what sort of a hole is
that one there, under the leaf?"

Bobbie started.

"A hole? A hole, did you say? There are very many holes round
here. It's probably just an ordinary hole. You have no idea how
many holes there are in the ground."

Bobbie had hardly uttered the last word when something dreadful
happened. In his eagerness to appear indifferent he had lost his
balance and toppled over. Maya heard a despairing shriek, and
the next instant saw the beetle lying flat on his back in the
grass, his arms and legs waving pitifully in the air.

"I'm done for," he wailed, "I'm done for. I can't get back on my
feet again. I'll never be able to get back on my feet again.
I'll die. I'll die in this position. Have you ever heard of a
worse fate!"

He carried on so that he did not hear Maya trying to comfort
him. And he kept making efforts to touch the ground with his
feet. But each time he'd painfully get hold of a bit of earth,
it would give way, and he'd fall over again on his high
half-sphere of a back. The case looked really desperate, and
Maya was honestly concerned; he was already quite pale in the
face and his cries were heart-rending.

"I can't stand it, I can't stand this position," he yelled. "At
least turn your head away. Don't torture a dying man with your
inquisitive stares.-- If only I could reach a blade of grass, or
the stem of the buttercup. You can't hold on to the air. Nobody
can do that. Nobody can hold on to the air."

Maya's heart was quivering with pity.

"Wait," she cried, "I'll try to turn you over. If I try very
hard I am bound to succeed. But Bobbie, _Bobbie_, dear man,
don't yell like that. Listen to me. If I bend a blade of grass
over and reach the tip of it to you, will you be able to use it
and save yourself?"

Bobbie had no ears for her suggestion. Frightened out of his
senses, he did nothing but kick and scream.

So little Maya, in spite of the rain, flew out of her cover over
to a slim green blade of grass beside Bobbie, and clung to it
near the tip. It bent under her weight and sank directly above
Bobbie's wriggling limbs. Maya gave a little cry of delight.

"Catch hold of it," she called.

Bobbie felt something tickle his face and quickly grabbed at it,
first with one hand, then with the other, and finally with his
legs, which had splendid sharp claws, two each. Bit by bit he
drew himself along the blade until he reached the base, where it
was thicker and stronger, and he was able to turn himself over
on it.

He heaved a tremendous sigh of relief.

"Good God!" he exclaimed. "That was awful. But for my presence
of mind I should have fallen a victim to your talkativeness."

"Are you feeling better?" asked Maya.

Bobbie clutched his forehead.

"Thanks, thanks. When this dizziness passes, I'll tell you all
about it."

But Maya never got the answer to her question. A field-sparrow
came hopping through the grass in search of insects, and the
little bee pressed herself close to the ground and kept very
quiet until the bird had gone. When she looked around for Bobbie
he had disappeared. So she too made off; for the rain had
stopped and the day was clear and warm.



Oh, what a day!

The dew had fallen early in the morning, and when the sun rose
and cast its slanting beams across the forest of grass, there
was such a sparkling and glistening and gleaming that you didn't
know what to say or do for sheer ecstasy, it was so beautiful,
so beautiful!

The moment Maya awoke, glad sounds greeted her from all round.
Some came out of the trees, from the throats of the birds, the
dreaded creatures who could yet produce such exquisite song;
other happy calls came out of the air, from flying insects, or
out of the grass and the bushes, from bugs and flies, big ones
and little ones.

Maya had made it very comfortable for herself in a hole in a
tree. It was safe and dry, and stayed warm the greater part
of the night because the sun shone on the entrance all day
long. Once, early in the morning, she had heard a woodpecker
rat-a-tat-tatting on the bark of the trunk, and had lost no time
getting away. The drumming of a woodpecker is as terrifying to a
little insect in the bark of a tree as the breaking open of our
shutters by a burglar would be to us. But at night she was safe
in her lofty nook. At night no creatures came prying.

She had sealed up part of the entrance with wax, leaving just
space enough to slip in and out; and in a cranny in the back of
the hole, where it was dark and cool, she had stored a little
honey against rainy days.

This morning she swung herself out into the sunshine with a cry
of delight, all anticipation as to what the fresh, lovely day
might bring. She sailed straight through the golden air, looking
like a brisk dot driven by the wind.

"I am going to meet a human being to-day," she cried. "I feel
sure I am. On days like this human beings must certainly be out
in the open air enjoying nature."

Never had she met so many insects. There was a coming and going
and all sorts of doings; the air was alive with a humming and a
laughing and glad little cries. You had to join in, you just
_had_ to join in.

After a while Maya let herself down into a forest of grass,
where all sorts of plants and flowers were growing. The highest
were the white tufts of yarrow and butterfly-weed--the flaming
milkweed that drew you like a magnet. She took a sip of nectar
from some clover and was about to fly off again when she saw a
perfect droll of a beast perched on a blade of grass curving
above her flower. She was thoroughly scared--he was such a lean
green monster--but then her interest was tremendously aroused,
and she remained sitting still, as though rooted to the spot,
and stared straight at him.

At first glance you'd have thought he had horns. Looking closer
you saw it was his oddly protuberant forehead that gave this
impression. Two long, long feelers fine as the finest thread
grew out of his brows, and his body was the slimmest imaginable,
and green all over, even to his eyes. He had dainty forelegs and
thin, inconspicuous wings that couldn't be very practical, Maya
thought. Oddest of all were his great hindlegs, which stuck up
over his body like two jointed stilts. His sly, saucy expression
was contradicted by the look of astonishment in his eyes, and
you couldn't say there was any meanness in his eyes either. No,
rather a lot of good humor.

"Well, mademoiselle," he said to Maya, evidently annoyed by her
surprised expression, "never seen a grasshopper before? Or are
you laying eggs?"

"The idea!" cried Maya in shocked accents. "It wouldn't occur to
me. Even if I could, I wouldn't. It would be usurping the sacred
duties of our queen. I wouldn't do such a foolish thing."

The grasshopper ducked his head and made such a funny face that
Maya had to laugh out loud in spite of her chagrin.

"Mademoiselle," he began, then had to laugh himself, and said:
"You're a case! You're a case!"

The fellow's behavior made Maya impatient.

"Why do you laugh?" she asked in a not altogether friendly tone.
"You can't be serious expecting me to lay eggs, especially out
here on the grass."

There was a snap. "Hoppety-hop," said the grasshopper, and was
gone.

Maya was utterly non-plussed. Without the help of his wings
he had swung himself up in the air in a tremendous curve.
Foolhardiness bordering on madness, she thought.

But there he was again. From where, she couldn't tell, but there
he was, beside her, on a leaf of her clover.

He looked her up and down, all round, before and behind.

"No," he said then, pertly, "you certainly can't lay eggs.
You're not equipped for it. You haven't got a borer."

"What--borer?" Maya covered herself with her wings and turned
so that the stranger could see nothing but her face.

"Borer, that's what I said.-- Don't fall off your base,
mademoiselle.-- You're a wasp, aren't you?"

To be called a wasp! Nothing worse could happen to little Maya.

"I _never_!" she cried.

"Hoppety-hop," answered he, and was off again.

"The fellow makes me nervous," she thought, and decided to fly
away. She couldn't remember ever having been so insulted in her
life. What a disgrace to be mistaken for a wasp, one of those
useless wasps, those tramps, those common thieves! It really was
infuriating.

But there he was again!

"Mademoiselle," he called and turned round part way, so that his
long hindlegs looked like the hands of a clock standing at five
minutes before half-past seven, "mademoiselle, you must excuse
me for interrupting our conversation now and then. But suddenly
I'm seized. I must hop. I can't help it, I must hop, no matter
where. Can't you hop, too?"

He smiled a smile that drew his mouth from ear to ear. Maya
couldn't keep from laughing.

"Can you?" said the grasshopper, and nodded encouragingly.

"Who _are_ you?" asked Maya. "You're terribly exciting."

"Why, everybody knows who I am," said the green oddity, and
grinned almost beyond the limits of his jaws.

Maya never could make out whether he spoke in fun or in earnest.

"I'm a stranger in these parts," she replied pleasantly, "else
I'm sure I'd know you.-- But please note that I belong to the
family of bees, and am positively not a wasp."

"My goodness," said the grasshopper, "one and the same thing."

Maya couldn't utter a sound, she was so excited.

"You're uneducated," she burst out at length. "Take a good look
at a wasp once."

"Why should I?" answered the green one. "What good would it
do if I observed differences that exist only in people's
imagination? You, a bee, fly round in the air, sting everything
you come across, and can't hop. Exactly the same with a wasp.
So where's the difference? Hoppety-hop!" And he was gone.

"But now I am going to fly away," thought Maya.

There he was again.

"Mademoiselle," he called, "there's going to be a hopping-match
to-morrow. It will be held in the Reverend Sinpeck's garden.
Would you care to have a complimentary ticket and watch the
games? My old woman has two left over. She'll trade you one for
a compliment. I expect to break the record."

"I'm not interested in hopping acrobatics," said Maya in some
disgust. "A person who flies has _higher_ interests."

The grasshopper grinned a grin you could almost hear.

"Don't think _too_ highly of yourself, my dear young lady. Most
creatures in this world can fly, but only a very, very few can
hop. You don't understand other people's interests. You have no
vision. Even human beings would like a high elegant hop. The
other day I saw the Reverend Sinpeck hop a yard up into the air
to impress a little snake that slid across his road. His
contempt for anything that couldn't hop was so great that he
threw away his pipe. And reverends, you know, cannot live
without their pipes. I have known grasshoppers--members of my
own family--who could hop to a height three hundred times their
length. _Now_ you're impressed. You haven't a word to say. And
you're inwardly regretting the remarks you made and the remarks
you intended to make. Three hundred times their own length! Just
imagine. Even the elephant, the largest animal in the world,
can't hop as high as that. Well? You're not saying anything.
Didn't I tell you you wouldn't have anything to say?"

"But how _can_ I say anything if you don't give me a chance?"

"All right, then, talk," said the grasshopper pleasantly.
"Hoppety-hop." He was gone.

Maya had to laugh in spite of her irritation.

The fellow had certainly furnished her with a strange
experience. Buffoon though he was, still she had to admire his
wide information and worldly wisdom; and though she could not
agree with his views of hopping, she was amazed by all the new
things he had taught her in their brief conversation. If he had
been more reliable she would have been only too glad to ask him
questions about a number of different things. It occurred
to her that often people who are least equipped to profit by
experiences are the very ones who have them.

He knew the names of human beings. Did he, then, understand
their language? If he came back, she'd ask him. And she'd also
ask him what he thought of trying to go near a human being or of
entering a human being's house.

"Mademoiselle!" A blade of grass beside Maya was set swaying.

"Goodness gracious! Where do you keep coming from?"

"The surroundings."

"But do tell, do you hop out into the world just so, without
knowing where you mean to land?"

"Of course. Why not? Can _you_ read the future? No one can. Only
the tree-toad, but he never tells."

"The things you know! Wonderful, simply wonderful!-- Do you
understand the language of human beings?"

"That's a difficult question to answer, mademoiselle, because it
hasn't been proved as yet whether human beings have a language.
Sometimes they utter sounds by which they seem to reach an
understanding with each other--but such awful sounds! So
unmelodious! Like nothing else in nature that I know of.
However, there's one thing you must allow them: they do seem to
try to make their voices pleasanter. Once I saw two boys take a
blade of grass between their thumbs and blow on it. The result
was a whistle which may be compared with the chirping of a
cricket, though far inferior in quality of tone, far inferior.
However, human beings make an honest effort.-- Is there anything
else you'd like to ask? I know a thing or two."

He grinned his almost-audible grin.

But the next time he hopped off, Maya waited for him in vain.
She looked about in the grass and the flowers; he was nowhere to
be seen.




Maya, drowsy with the noonday heat, flew leisurely past the
glare on the bushes in the garden, into the cool, broad-leaved
shelter of a great chestnut-tree.

On the trodden sward in the shade under the tree stood chairs
and tables, evidently for an out-door meal. A short distance
away gleamed the red-tiled roof of a peasant's cottage, with
thin blue columns of smoke curling up from the chimneys.

Now at last, thought Maya, she was bound to see a human being.
Had she not reached the very heart of his realm? The tree must
be his property, and the curious wooden contrivances in the
shade below must belong to his hive.

Something buzzed; a fly alighted on the leaf beside her. It ran
up and down the green veining in little jerks. You couldn't see
its legs move, and it seemed to be sliding about excitedly. Then
it flew from one finger of the broad leaf to another, but so
quickly and unexpectedly that you might have thought it hadn't
flown but hopped. Evidently it was looking for the most
comfortable place on the leaf. Every now and then, in the
suddennest way, it would swing itself up in the air a short
space and buzz vehemently, as though something dreadfully
untoward had occurred, or as though it were animated by some
tremendous purpose. Then it would drop back to the leaf, as if
nothing had happened, and resume its jerky racing up and down.
Lastly, it would sit quite still, like a rigid image.

Maya watched its antics in the sunshine, then approached it and
said politely:

"How do you do? Welcome to my leaf. You are a fly, are you not?"

"What else do you take me for?" said the little one. "My name is
Puck. I am very busy. Do you want to drive me away?"

"Why, not at all. I am glad to make your acquaintance."

"I believe you," was all Puck said, and with that he tried to
pull his head off.

"Mercy!" cried Maya.

"I must do this. You don't understand. It's something you know
nothing about," Puck rejoined calmly, and slid his legs over his
wings till they curved round the tip of his body. "I'm more than
a fly," he added with some pride. "I'm a housefly. I flew out
here for the fresh air."

"How interesting!" exclaimed Maya gleefully. "Then you must know
all about human beings."

"As well as the pockets of my trousers," Puck threw out
disdainfully. "I sit on them every day. Didn't you know _that_?
I thought you bees were so _clever_. You pretend to be at any
rate."

"My name is Maya," said the little bee rather shyly. Where the
other insects got their self-assurance, to say nothing of their
insolence, she couldn't understand.

"Thanks for the information. Whatever your name, you're a
simpleton."

Puck sat there tilted like a cannon in position to be fired off,
his head and breast thrust upward, the hind tip of his body
resting on the leaf. Suddenly he ducked his head and squatted
down, so that he looked as if he had no legs.

"You've got to watch out and be careful," he said. "That's the
most important thing of all."

But an angry wave of resentment was surging in little Maya. The
insult Puck had offered her was too much. Without really knowing
what made her do it, she pounced on him quick as lightning,
caught him by the collar and held him tight.

"I will teach you to be polite to a bee," she cried.

Puck set up an awful howl.

"Don't sting me," he screamed. "It's the only thing you can do,
but it's killing. Please remove the back of your body. That's
where your sting is. And let me go, please let me go, if you
possibly can. I'll do anything you say. Can't you understand a
joke, a mere joke? Everybody knows that you bees are the most
respected of all insects, and the most powerful, and the most
numerous. Only don't kill me, please don't. There won't be any
bringing me back to life. Good God! No one appreciates my
humor!"

"Very well," said Maya with a touch of contempt in her heart,
"I'll let you live on condition that you tell me everything you
know about human beings."

"Gladly," cried Puck. "I'd have told you anyhow. But please let
me go now."

Maya released him. She had stopped caring. Her respect for the
fly and any confidence she might have had in him were gone. Of
what value could the experiences of so low, so vulgar a creature
be to serious-minded people? She would have to find out about
human beings for herself.

The lesson, however, had not been wasted. Puck was much more
endurable now. Scolding and growling he set himself to rights.
He smoothed down his feelers and wings and the minute hairs on
his black body--which were fearfully rumpled; for the girl-bee
had laid on good and hard--and concluded the operation by
running his proboscis in and out several times--something new
to Maya.

"Out of joint, completely out of joint!" he muttered in a pained
tone. "Comes of your excited way of doing things. Look. See for
yourself. The sucking-disk at the end of my proboscis looks like
a twisted pewter plate."

"Have you a sucking-disk?" asked Maya.

"Goodness gracious, of course!-- Now tell me. What do you want
to know about human beings?-- Never mind about my proboscis
being out of joint. It'll be all right.-- I think I had best
tell you a few things from my own life. You see, I grew up among
human beings, so you'll hear just what you want to know."

"You grew up among human beings?"

"Of course. It was in the corner of their room that my mother
laid the egg from which I came. I made my first attempts to walk
on their window-shades, and I tested the strength of my wings by
flying from Schiller to Goethe."

"What are Schiller and Goethe?"

"Statues," explained Puck, very superior, "statues of two men
who seem to have distinguished themselves. They stand under the
mirror, one on the right hand and one on the left hand, and
nobody pays any attention to them."

"What's a mirror? And why do the statues stand under the
mirror?"

"A mirror is good for seeing your belly when you crawl on it.
It's very amusing. When human beings go up to a mirror, they
either put their hands up to their hair, or pull at their
beards. When they are alone, they smile into the mirror, but if
somebody else is in the room they look very serious. What the
purpose of it is, I could never make out. Seems to be some
useless game of theirs. I myself, when I was still a child,
suffered a good deal from the mirror. I'd fly into it and of
course be thrown back violently."

Maya plied Puck with more questions about the mirror, which he
found very difficult to answer.

"Here," he said at last, "you've certainly flown over the smooth
surface of water, haven't you? Well, a mirror is something like
it, only hard and upright."

The little fly, seeing that Maya listened most respectfully and
attentively to the tale of his experiences, became a good deal
pleasanter in his manners. And as for Maya's opinion of Puck,
although she didn't believe everything he told her, still she
was sorry she had thought so slightingly of him earlier in their
meeting.

"Often people are far more sensible than we take them to be at
first," she told herself.

Puck went on with his story.

"It took a long time for me to get to understand their language.
Now at last I know what they want. It isn't much, because they
usually say the same thing every day."

"I can scarcely believe it," said Maya. "Why, they have so many
interests, and think so many things, and do so many things.
Cassandra told me that they build cities so big that you can't
fly round them in one day, towers as high as the nuptial flight
of our queen, houses that float on the water, and houses that
glide across the country on two narrow silver paths and go
faster than birds."

"Wait a moment!" said Puck energetically. "Who is Cassandra? Who
is she, if I may make so bold as to ask? Well?"

"Oh, she was my teacher."

"Teacher!" repeated Puck contemptuously. "Probably also a bee.
Who but a bee would overestimate human beings like that? Your
Miss Cassandra, or whatever her name is, doesn't know her
history. Those cities and towers and other human devices you
speak of are none of them any good to us. Who would take such an
impractical view of the world as you do? If you don't accept the
premise that the earth is dominated by the flies, that the flies
are the most widespread and most important race on earth, you'll
scarcely get a real knowledge of the world."

Puck took a few excited zigzag turns on the leaf and pulled at
his head, to Maya's intense concern. However, the little bee had
observed by this time that there wasn't much sense to be got out
of his head any way.

"Do you know how you can tell I am right?" asked Puck, rubbing
his hands together as if to tie them in a knot. "Count the
number of people and the number of flies in any room. The result
will surprise you."

"You may be right. But that's not the point."

"Do you think I was born this year?" Puck demanded all of a
sudden.

"I don't know."

"I passed through a winter," Puck announced, all pride. "My
experiences date back to the ice age. In a sense they take me
_through_ the ice age. That's why I'm here--I'm here to
recuperate."

"Whatever else you may be, you certainly are spunky," remarked
Maya.

"I should say so," exclaimed Puck, and made an airy leap out
into the sunshine. "The flies are the boldest race in creation.
We never run away unless it is better to run away, and then we
always come back.-- Have you ever sat on a human being?"

"No," said Maya, looking at the fly distrustfully out of the
corner of her eye. She still didn't know quite what to make of
him. "No, I'm not interested in sitting on human beings."

"Ah, dear child, that's because you don't know what it is. If
ever you had seen the fun I have with the man at home, you'd
turn green with envy. I'll tell you.-- In my room there lives an
elderly man who cherishes the color of his nose by means of a
peculiar drink, which he keeps hidden in the corner cupboard.
It has a sweet, intoxicating smell. When he goes to get it he
smiles, and his eyes grow small. He takes a little glass, and he
looks up to the ceiling while he drinks, to see if I am there.
I nod down to him, and he passes his hand over his forehead,
nose and mouth to show me where I am to sit later on. Then he
blinks, and opens his mouth as wide as he can, and pulls down
the shade to keep the afternoon sun from bothering us. Finally
he lays himself down on a something called a sofa, and in a
short while begins to make dull snuffling sounds. I suppose he
thinks the sounds are beautiful. We'll talk about them some
other time. They are man's slumber song. For me they are the
sign that I am to come down. The first thing I do is to take my
portion from the glass, which he left for me. There's something
tremendously stimulating about a drop like that. I understand
human beings. Then I fly over and take my place on the forehead
of the sleeping man. The forehead lies between the nose and the
hair and serves for thinking. You can tell it does from the long
furrows that go from right to left. They must move whenever a
man thinks if something worth while is to result from his
thinking. The forehead also shows if human beings are annoyed.
But then the folds run up and down, and a round cavity forms
over the nose. As soon as I settle on his forehead and begin to
run to and fro in the furrows, the man makes a snatch in the air
with his hands. He thinks I'm somewhere in the air. That's
because I'm sitting on his think-furrows, and he can't work out
so quickly where I really am. At last he does. He mutters and
jabs at me. Now then, Miss Maya, or whatever your name is, now
then, you've got to have your wits about you. I see the hand
coming, but I wait until the last moment, then I fly nimbly to
one side, sit down, and watch him feel to see if I am still
there.-- We kept the game up often for a full half hour. You have
no idea what a lot of endurance the man has. Finally he jumps up
and pours out a string of words which show how ungrateful he is.
Well, what of it? A noble soul seeks no reward. I'm already up
on the ceiling listening to his ungrateful outburst."

"I can't say I particularly like it," observed Maya. "Isn't it
rather useless?"

"Do you expect me to erect a honeycomb on his nose?" exclaimed
Puck. "You have no sense of humor, dear girl. What do _you_ do
that's useful?"

Little Maya went red all over, but quickly collected herself to
hide her embarrassment from Puck.

"The time is coming," she flashed, "when I shall do something
big and splendid, and good and useful too. But first I want to
see what is going on in the world. Deep down in my heart I feel
that the time is coming."

As Maya spoke she felt a hot tide of hope and enthusiasm flood
her being.

Puck seemed not to realize how serious she was, and how deeply
stirred. He zigzagged about in his flurried way for a while,
then asked:

"You don't happen to have any honey with you, do you, my dear?"

"I'm so sorry," replied Maya. "I'd gladly let you have some,
especially after you've entertained me so pleasantly, but I
really haven't got any with me.-- May I ask you one more
question?"

"Shoot," said Puck. "I'll answer, I'll always answer."

"I'd like to know how I could get into a human being's house."

"Fly in," said Puck sagaciously.

"But how, without running into danger?"

"Wait until a window is opened. But be sure to find the way out
again. Once you're inside, if you can't find the window, the
best thing to do is to fly toward the light. You'll always find
plenty of windows in every house. You need only notice where the
sun shines through. Are you going already?"

"Yes," replied Maya, holding out her hand. "I have some things
to attend to. Good-by. I hope you quite recover from the effects
of the ice age."

And with her fine confident buzz that yet sounded slightly
anxious, little Maya raised her gleaming wings and flew out into
the sunshine across to the flowery meadows to cull a little
nourishment.

Puck looked after her, and carefully meditated what might still
be said. Then he observed thoughtfully:

"Well, now. Well, well.-- Why not?"



After her meeting with Puck the fly Maya was not in a
particularly happy frame of mind. She could not bring herself to
believe that he was right in everything he had said about human
beings, or right in his relations to them. She had formed an
entirely different conception--a much finer, lovelier picture,
and she fought against letting her mind harbor low or ridiculous
ideas of mankind. Yet she was still afraid to enter a human
dwelling. How was she to know whether or not the owner would
like it? And she wouldn't for all the world make herself a
burden to anyone.

Her thoughts went back once more to the things Cassandra had
told her.

"They are good and wise," Cassandra had said. "They are strong
and powerful, but they never abuse their power. On the contrary,
wherever they go they bring order and prosperity. We bees,
knowing they are friendly to us, put ourselves under their
protection and share our honey with them. They leave us enough
for the winter, they provide us with shelter against the cold,
and guard us against the hosts of our enemies among the animals.
There are few creatures in the world who have entered into such
a relation of friendship and voluntary service with human
beings. Among the insects you will often hear voices raised to
speak evil of man. Don't listen to them. If a foolish tribe of
bees ever returns to the wild and tries to do without human
beings, it soon perishes. There are too many beasts that hanker
for our honey, and often a whole bee-city--all its buildings,
all its inhabitants--has been ruthlessly destroyed, merely
because a senseless animal wanted to satisfy its greed for
honey."

That is what Cassandra had told Maya about human beings, and
until Maya had convinced herself of the contrary, she wanted to
keep this belief in them.

It was now afternoon. The sun was dropping behind the fruit
trees in a large vegetable garden through which Maya was flying.
The trees were long past flowering, but the little bee still
remembered them in the shining glory of countless blossoms,
whiter than light, lovely, pure, and exquisite against the blue
of the heavens. The delicious perfume, the gleam and the
shimmer--oh, she'd never forget the rapture of it as long as
she lived.

As she flew she thought of how all that beauty would come again,
and her heart expanded with delight in the glory of the great
world in which she was permitted to live.

At the end of the garden shone the starry tufts of the
jasmine--delicate yellow faces set in a wreath of pure
white--sweet perfume wafted to Maya on the soft wings of the
breeze.

And weren't there still some trees in bloom? Wasn't it the
season for lindens? Maya thought delightedly of the big serious
lindens, whose tops held the red glow of the setting sun to the
very last.

She flew in among the stems of the blackberry vines, which were
putting forth green berries and yielding blossoms at the same
time. As she mounted again to reach the jasmine, something
strange to the touch suddenly laid itself across her forehead
and shoulders, and just as quickly covered her wings. It was the
queerest sensation, as if her wings were crippled and she were
suddenly restrained in her flight, and were falling, helplessly
falling. A secret, wicked force seemed to be holding her
feelers, her legs, her wings in invisible captivity. But she did
not fall. Though she could no longer move her wings, she still
hung in the air rocking, caught by a marvelously yielding
softness and delicacy, raised a little, lowered a little, tossed
here, tossed there, like a loose leaf in a faint breeze.

Maya was troubled, but not as yet actually terrified. Why should
she be? There was no pain nor real discomfort of any sort.
Simply that it was so peculiar, so very peculiar, and something
bad seemed to be lurking in the background. She must get on. If
she tried very hard, she could, assuredly.

But now she saw a thread across her breast, an elastic silvery
thread finer than the finest silk. She clutched at it quickly,
in a cold wave of terror. It clung to her hand; it wouldn't
shake off. And there ran another silver thread over her
shoulders. It drew itself across her wings and tied them
together--her wings were powerless. And there, and there!
Everywhere in the air and above her body--those bright,
glittering, gluey threads!

Maya screamed with horror. Now she knew! Oh--oh, now she knew!
She was in a spider's web.

Her terrified shrieks rang out in the silent dome of the summer
day, where the sunshine touched the green of the leaves into
gold, and insects flitted to and fro, and birds swooped gaily
from tree to tree. Nearby, the jasmine sent its perfume into the
air--the jasmine she had wanted to reach. Now all was over.

A small bluish butterfly, with brown dots gleaming like copper
on its wings, came flying very close.

"Oh, you poor soul," it cried, hearing Maya's screams and seeing
her desperate plight. "May your death be an easy one, lovely
child. I cannot help you. Some day, perhaps this very night,
I shall meet with the same fate. But meanwhile life is still
lovely for me. Good-by. Don't forget the sunshine in the deep
sleep of death."

And the blue butterfly rocked away, drugged by the sunshine and
the flowers and its own joy of living.

The tears streamed from Maya's eyes; she lost her last shred of
self-control. She tossed her captive body to and fro, and buzzed
as loud as she could, and screamed for help--from whom she did
not know. But the more she tossed the tighter she enmeshed
herself in the web. Now, in her great agony, Cassandra's
warnings went through her mind:

"Beware of the spider and its web. If we bees fall into the
spider's power we suffer the most gruesome death. The spider is
heartless and tricky, and once it has a person in its toils, it
never lets him go."

In a great flare of mortal terror Maya made one huge desperate
effort. Somewhere one of the long, heavier suspension threads
snapped. Maya felt it break, yet at the same time she sensed the
awful doom of the cobweb. This was, that the more one struggled
in it, the more effectively and dangerously it worked. She gave
up, in complete exhaustion.

At that moment she saw the spider herself--very near, under a
blackberry leaf. At sight of the great monster, silent and
serious, crouching there as if ready to pounce, Maya's horror
was indescribable. The wicked shining eyes were fastened on the
little bee in sinister, cold-blooded patience.

Maya gave one loud shriek. This was the worst agony of all.
Death itself could look no worse than that grey, hairy monster
with her mean fangs and the raised legs supporting her fat body
like a scaffolding. She would come rushing upon her, and then
all would be over.

Now a dreadful fury of anger came upon Maya, such as she had
never felt before. Forgetting her great agony, intent only upon
one thing--selling her life as dearly as possible--she uttered
her clear, alarming battle-cry, which all beasts knew and
dreaded.

"You will pay for your cunning with death," she shouted at the
spider. "Just come and try to kill me, you'll find out what a
bee can do."

The spider did not budge. She really was uncanny and must have
terrified bigger creatures than little Maya.

Strong in her anger, Maya now made another violent, desperate
effort. Snap! One of the long suspension threads above her
broke. The web was probably meant for flies and gnats, not for
such large insects as bees.

But Maya got herself only more entangled.

In one gliding motion the spider drew quite close to Maya. She
swung by her nimble legs upon a single thread with her body
hanging straight downward.

"What right have you to break my net?" she rasped at Maya. "What
are you doing here? Isn't the world big enough for you? Why do
you disturb a peaceful recluse?"

That was not what Maya had expected to hear. Most certainly not.

"I didn't mean to," she cried, quivering with glad hope. Ugly as
the spider was, still she did not seem to intend any harm.
"I didn't see your web and I got tangled in it. I'm so sorry.
Please pardon me."

The spider drew nearer.

"You're a funny little body," she said, letting go of the thread
first with one leg, then with the other. The delicate thread
shook. How wonderful that it could support the great creature.

"Oh, do help me out of this," begged Maya, "I should be so
grateful."

"That's what I came here for," said the spider, and smiled
strangely. For all her smiling she looked mean and deceitful.
"Your tossing and tugging spoils the whole web. Keep quiet one
second, and I will set you free."

"Oh, thanks! Ever so many thanks!" cried Maya.

The spider was now right beside her. She examined the web
carefully to see how securely Maya was entangled.

"How about your sting?" she asked.

Ugh, how mean and horrid she looked! Maya fairly shivered with
disgust at the thought that she was going to touch her, but
replied as pleasantly as she could:

"Don't trouble about my sting. I will draw it in, and nobody can
hurt himself on it then."

"I should hope not," said the spider. "Now, then, look out! Keep
quiet. Too bad for my web."

Maya remained still. Suddenly she felt herself being whirled
round and round on the same spot, till she got dizzy and sick
and had to close her eyes.-- But what was that? She opened her
eyes quickly. Horrors! She was completely enmeshed in a fresh
sticky thread which the spider must have had with her.

"My God!" cried little Maya softly, in a quivering voice. That
was all she said. Now she saw how tricky the spider had been;
now she was really caught beyond release; now there was
absolutely no chance of escape. She could no longer move any
part of her body. The end was near.

Her fury of anger was gone, there was only a great sadness in
her heart.

"I didn't know there was such meanness and wickedness in the
world," she thought. "The deep night of death is upon me.
Good-by, dear bright sun. Good-by, my dear friend-bees. Why did
I leave you? A happy life to you. I must die."

The spider sat wary, a little to one side. She was still afraid
of Maya's sting.

"Well?" she jeered. "How are you feeling, little girl?"

Maya was too proud to answer the false creature. She merely
said, after a while when she felt she couldn't bear any more:

"Please kill me right away."

"Really!" said the spider, tying a few torn threads together.
"Really! Do you take me to be as big a dunce as yourself? You're
going to die anyhow, if you're kept hanging long enough, and
that's the time for me to suck the blood out of you--when you
can't sting. Too bad, though, that you can't see how dreadfully
you've damaged my lovely web. Then you'd realize that you
deserve to die."

She dropped down to the ground, laid the end of the newly spun
thread about a stone, and pulled it in tight. Then she ran up
again, caught hold of the thread by which little enmeshed Maya
hung, and dragged her captive along.

"You're going into the shade, my dear," she said, "so that you
shall not dry up out here in the sunshine. Besides, hanging here
you're like a scarecrow, you'll frighten away other nice little
mortals who don't watch where they're going. And sometimes the
sparrows come and rob my web.-- To let you know with whom you're
dealing, my name is Thekla, of the family of cross-spiders. You
needn't tell me your name. It makes no difference. You're a fat
bit, and you'll taste just as tender and juicy by any name."

So little Maya hung in the shade of the blackberry vine, close
to the ground, completely at the mercy of the cruel spider, who
intended her to die by slow starvation. Hanging with her little
head downward--a fearful position to be in--she soon felt she
would not last many more minutes. She whimpered softly, and her
cries for help grew feebler and feebler. Who was there to hear?
Her folk at home knew nothing of this catastrophe, so _they_
couldn't come hurrying to her rescue.

Suddenly down, in the grass, she heard some one growling:

"Make way! _I'm_ coming."

Maya's agonized heart began to beat stormily. She recognized the
voice of Bobbie, the dung-beetle.

"Bobbie," she called, as loud as she could, "Bobbie, dear
Bobbie!"

"Make way! _I'm_ coming."

"But I'm not in your way, Bobbie," cried Maya. "Oh dear, I'm
hanging over your head. The spider has caught me."

"Who are you?" asked Bobbie. "So many people know me. You know
they do, don't you?"

"I am Maya--Maya, the bee. Oh please, please help me!"

"Maya? Maya?-- Ah, now I remember. You made my acquaintance
several weeks ago.-- The deuce! You _are_ in a bad way, if I
must say so myself. You certainly do need my help. As I happen
to have a few moments' time, I won't refuse."

"Oh, Bobbie, can you tear these threads?"

"Tear those threads! Do you mean to insult me?" Bobbie slapped
the muscles of his arm. "Look, little girl. Hard as steel. No
match for _that_ in strength. I can do more than smash a few
cobwebs. You'll see something that'll make you open your eyes."

Bobbie crawled up on the leaf, caught hold of the thread by
which Maya was hanging, clung to it, then let go of the leaf.
The thread broke, and they both fell to the ground.

"That's only the beginning," said Bobbie.-- "But Maya, you're
trembling. My dear child, you poor little girl, how pale you
are! Now who would be so afraid of death? You must look death
calmly in the face as I do. So. I'll unwrap you now."

Maya could not utter a syllable. Bright tears of joy ran down
her cheeks. She was to be free again, fly again in the sunshine,
wherever she wished. She was to live.

But then she saw the spider coming down the blackberry vine.

"Bobbie," she screamed, "the spider's coming."

Bobbie went on unperturbed, merely laughing to himself. He
really was an extraordinarily strong insect.

"She'll think twice before she comes nearer," he said.

But there! The vile voice rasped above them:

"Robbers! Help! I'm being robbed. You fat lump, what are you
doing with my prey?"

"Don't excite yourself, madam," said Bobbie. "I have a right,
haven't I, to talk to my friend. If you say another word to
displease me, I'll tear your whole web to shreds. Well? Why so
silent all of a sudden?"

"I am defeated," said the spider.

"That has nothing to do with the case," observed Bobbie. "Now
you'd better be getting away from here."

The spider cast a look at Bobbie full of hate and venom; but
glancing up at her web she reconsidered, and turned away slowly,
furious, scolding and growling under her breath. Fangs and
stings were of no avail. They wouldn't even leave a mark on
armor such as Bobbie wore. With violent denunciations against
the injustice in the world, the spider hid herself away inside a
withered leaf, from which she could spy out and watch over her
web.

Meanwhile Bobbie finished the unwrapping of Maya. He tore the
network and released her legs and wings. The rest she could do
herself. She preened herself happily. But she had to go slow,
because she was still weak from fright.

"You must forget what you have been through," said Bobbie. "Then
you'll stop trembling. Now see if you can fly. Try."

Maya lifted herself with a little buzz. Her wings worked
splendidly, and to her intense joy she felt that no part of her
body had been injured. She flew slowly up to the jasmine
flowers, drank avidly of their abundant scented honey-juice, and
returned to Bobbie, who had left the blackberry vines and was
sitting in the grass.

"I thank you with my whole heart and soul," said Maya, deeply
moved and happy in her regained freedom.

"Thanks are in place," observed Bobbie. "But that's the way I
always am--always doing something for other people. Now fly
away. I'd advise you to lay your head on your pillow early
to-night. Have you far to go?"

"No," said Maya. "Only a short way. I live at the edge of the
beech-woods. Good-by, Bobbie, I'll never forget you, never,
never, so long as I live. Good-by."

 


Her adventure with the spider gave Maya something to think
about. She made up her mind to be more cautious in the future,
not to rush into things so recklessly. Cassandra's prudent
warnings about the greatest dangers that threaten the bees, were
enough to give one pause; and there were all sorts of other
possibilities, and the world was such a big place--oh, there
was a good deal to make a little bee stop and think.

It was in the evening particularly, when twilight fell and the
little bee was all by herself, that one consideration after
another stirred her mind. But the next morning, if the sun
shone, she usually forgot half the things that had bothered her
the night before, and allowed her eagerness for experiences to
drive her out again into the gay whirl of life.

One day she met a very curious creature. It was angular and flat
as a pancake, but had a rather neat design on its sheath; and
whether its sheath were wings or what, you couldn't really tell.
The odd little monster sat absolutely still on the shaded leaf
of a raspberry bush, its eyes half closed, apparently sunk in
meditation. The scent of the raspberries spread around it
deliciously. Maya wanted to find out what sort of an animal it
was. She flew to the next-door leaf and said how-do-you-do. The
stranger made no reply.

"How do you do, again?" And Maya gave its leaf a little tap. The
flat object peeled one eye open, turned it on Maya, and said:

"A bee. The world is full of bees," and closed its eye again.

"Unique," thought Maya, and determined to get at the stranger's
secret. For now it excited her curiosity more than ever, as
people often do who pay no attention to us. She tried honey.
"I have plenty of honey," she said. "May I offer you some?" The
stranger opened its one eye and regarded Maya contemplatively a
moment or two. "What is it going to say this time?" Maya
wondered.

This time there was no answer at all. The one eye merely closed
again, and the stranger sat quite still, tight on the leaf, so
that you couldn't see its legs and you'd have thought it had
been pressed down flat with a thumb.

Maya realized, of course, that the stranger wanted to ignore
her, but--you know how it is--you don't like being snubbed,
especially if you haven't found out what you wanted to find out.
It makes you feel so cheap.

"Whoever you are," cried Maya, "permit me to inform you that
insects are in the habit of greeting each other, especially when
one of them happens to be a bee." The bug sat on without
budging. It did not so much as open its one eye again. "It's
ill," thought Maya. "How horrid to be ill on a lovely day like
this. That's why it's staying in the shade, too." She flew over
to the bug's leaf and sat down beside it. "Aren't you feeling
well?" she asked, so very friendly.

At this the funny creature began to move away. "Move" is the
only word to use, because it didn't walk, or run, or fly, or
hop. It went as if shoved by an invisible hand.

"It hasn't any legs. That's why it's so cross," thought Maya.

When it reached the stem of the leaf it stopped a second, moved
on again, and, to her astonishment, Maya saw that it had left
behind a little brown drop.

"How _very_ singular," she thought--and clapped her hand to her
nose and held it tight shut. The veriest stench came from the
little brown drop. Maya almost fainted. She flew away as fast as
she could and seated herself on a raspberry, where she held on
to her nose and shivered with disgust and excitement.

"Serves you right," someone above her called, and laughed. "Why
take up with a stink-bug?"

"Don't laugh!" cried Maya.

She looked up. A white butterfly had alighted overhead on a
slender, swaying branch of the raspberry bush, and was slowly
opening and closing its broad wings--slowly, softly, silently,
happy in the sunshine--black corners to its wings, round black
marks in the centre of each wing, four round black marks in all.
Ah, how beautiful, how beautiful! Maya forgot her vexation. And
she was glad, too, to talk to the butterfly. She had never made
the acquaintance of one before even though she had met a great
many.

"Oh," she said, "you probably are right to laugh. Was that a
stink-bug?"

"It was," he replied, still smiling. "The sort of person to keep
away from. You're probably very young still?"

"Well," observed Maya, "I shouldn't say I was--exactly. I've
been through a great deal. But that was the first specimen of
the kind I had ever come across. Can you imagine doing such a
thing?"

The butterfly had to laugh again.

"You see," he explained, "stink-bugs like to keep to themselves.
They are not very popular, so they use the odoriferous drop to
make people take notice of them. We'd probably soon forget the
fact of their existence if it were not for the drop: it serves
as a reminder. And they want to be remembered, no matter how."

"How lovely, how exquisitely lovely your wings are," said Maya.
"So delicate and white. May I introduce myself? Maya, of the
nation of bees."

The butterfly laid his wings together to look like only one wing
standing straight up in the air. He gave a slight bow.

"Fred," he said laconically.

Maya couldn't gaze her fill.

"Fly a little," she asked.

"Shall I fly away?"

"Oh no. I just want to see your great white wings move in the
blue air. But never mind. I can wait till later. Where do you
live?"

"Nowhere specially. A settled home is too much of a nuisance.
Life didn't get to be really delightful until I turned into a
butterfly. Before that, while I was still a caterpillar,
I couldn't leave the cabbage the livelong day, and all one did
was eat and squabble."

"Just what do you mean?" asked Maya, mystified.

"I used to be a caterpillar," explained Fred.

"Never!" cried Maya.

"Now, now, now," said Fred, pointing both feelers straight at
Maya. "Everyone knows a butterfly is first a caterpillar. Even
human beings know it."

Maya was utterly perplexed. Could such a thing be?

"You must really explain more clearly," she said. "I couldn't
accept what you say just so, could I? You wouldn't expect
me to."

The butterfly perched beside the little bee on the slender
swaying branch of the raspberry bush, and they rocked together
in the morning wind. He told her how he had begun life as a
caterpillar and then, one day, when he had shed his last
caterpillar skin, he came out a pupa or chrysalis.

"At the end of a few weeks," he continued, "I woke up out of my
dark sleep and broke through the wrappings or pupa-case. I can't
tell you, Maya, what a feeling comes over you when, after a time
like that, you suddenly see the sun again. I felt as though I
were melting in a warm golden ocean, and I loved my life so that
my heart began to pound."

"I understand," said Maya, "I understand. I felt the same way
the first time I left our humdrum city and flew out into the
bright scented world of blossoms." The little bee was silent a
while, thinking of her first flight.-- But then she wanted to
know how the butterfly's large wings could grow in the small
space of the pupa-case.

Fred explained.

"The wings are delicately folded together like the petals of a
flower in the bud. When the weather is bright and warm, the
flower must open, it cannot help itself, and its petals unfold.
So with my wings, they were folded up, then unfolded. No one can
resist the sun when it shines."

"No, no--one cannot--one cannot resist the sunshine." Maya
mused, watching the butterfly as he perched in the golden light
of the morning, pure white against the blue sky.

"People often charge us with being frivolous," said Fred. "We're
really happy--just that--just happy. You wouldn't believe how
seriously I sometimes think about life."

"Tell me what all you think."

"Oh," said Fred, "I think about the future. It's very
interesting to think about the future.-- But I should like to
fly now. The meadows on the hillside are full of yarrow and
canterbury bells; everything's in bloom. I'd like to be there,
you know."

This Maya understood, she understood it well, and they said
good-by and flew away in different directions, the white
butterfly rocking silently as if wafted by the gentle wind,
little Maya with that uneasy zoom-zoom of the bees which we hear
upon the flowers on fair days and which we always recall when we
think of the summer.



Near the hole where Maya had set herself up for the summer lived
a family of bark-boring beetles. Fridolin, the father, was an
earnest, industrious man who wanted many children and took
immense pains to bring up a large family. He had done very well:
he had fifty energetic sons to fill him with pride and high
hopes. Each had dug his own meandering little tunnel in the bark
of the pine-tree and all were getting on and were comfortably
settled.

"My wife," Fridolin said to Maya, after they had known each
other some time, "has arranged things so that none of my sons
interferes with the others. They are not even acquainted; each
goes his own way."

Maya knew that human beings were none too fond of Fridolin and
his people, though she herself liked him and liked his opinions
and had found no reason to avoid him. In the morning before the
sun arose and the woods were still asleep, she would hear his
fine tapping and boring. It sounded like a delicate trickling,
or as if the tree were breathing in its sleep. Later she would
see the thin brown dust that he had emptied out of his corridor.

Once he came at an early hour, as he often did, to wish her
good-morning and ask if she had slept well.

"Not flying to-day?" he inquired.

"No, it's too windy."

It was windy. The wind rushed and roared and flung the branches
into a mad tumult. The leaves looked ready to fly away. After
each great gust the sky would brighten, and in the pale light
the trees seemed balder. The pine in which Maya and Fridolin
lived shrieked with the voices of the wind as in a fury of anger
and excitement.

Fridolin sighed.

"I worked all night," he told Maya, "all night. But what can you
do? You've got to do _some_thing to get _some_where. And I'm not
altogether satisfied with this pine; I should have tackled a
fir-tree." He wiped his brow and smiled in self-pity.

"How are your children?" asked Maya pleasantly.

"Thank you," said Fridolin, "thank you for your interest.
But"--he hesitated--"but I don't supervise the way I used to.
Still, I have reason to believe they are all doing well."

As he sat there, a little brown man with slightly curtailed
wing-sheaths and a breastplate that looked like a head too large
for its body, Maya thought he was almost comical; but she knew
he was a dangerous beetle who could do immense harm to the mighty
trees of the forest, and if his tribe attacked a tree in numbers
then the green needles were doomed, the tree would turn sear and
die. It was utterly without defenses against the little marauders
who destroyed the bark and the sap-wood. And the sap-wood is
necessary to the life of a tree because it carries the sap up to
the very tips of the branches. There were stories of how whole
forests had fallen victims to the race of boring-beetles. Maya
looked at Fridolin reflectively; she was awed into solemnity at
the thought of the great power these little creatures possessed
and of how important they could become.

Fridolin sighed and said in a worried tone:

"Ah, life would be beautiful if there were no woodpeckers."

Maya nodded.

"Yes, indeed, you're right. The woodpecker gobbles up every
insect he sees."

"If it were only that," observed Fridolin, "if it were only that
he got the careless people who fool around on the outside, on
the bark, I'd say, 'Very well, a woodpecker must live too.' But
it seems all wrong that the bird should follow us right into our
corridors into the remotest corners of our homes."

"But he can't. He's too big, isn't he?"

Fridolin looked at Maya with an air of grave importance, lifting
his brows and shaking his head two or three times. It seemed to
please him that he knew something she didn't know.

"Too big? What difference does his size make? No, my dear, it's
not his size we are afraid of; it's his tongue."

Maya made big eyes.

Fridolin told her about the woodpecker's tongue: that it was
long and thin, and round as a worm, and barbed and sticky.

"He can stretch his tongue out ten times my length," cried the
bark-beetle, flourishing his arm. "You think: 'now--now he has
reached the limit, he can't make it the tiniest bit longer.' But
no, he goes on stretching and stretching it. He pokes it deep
into all the cracks and crevices of the bark, on the chance that
he'll find somebody sitting there. He even pushes it into our
passageways--actually, into our corridors and chambers. Things
stick to it, and that's the way he pulls us out of our homes."

"I am not a coward," said Maya, "I don't think I am, but what
you say makes me creepy."

"Oh, _you're_ all right," said Fridolin, a little envious, "you
with your sting are safe. A person'll think twice before he'll
let you sting his tongue. Anybody'll tell you that. But how
about us bark-beetles? How do you think we feel? A cousin of
mine got caught. We had just had a little quarrel on account
of my wife. I remember every detail perfectly. My cousin was
paying us a visit and hadn't yet got used to our ways or our
arrangements. All of a sudden we heard a woodpecker scratching
and boring--one of the smaller species. It must have begun
right at our building because as a rule we hear him beforehand
and have time to run to shelter before he reaches us.

"Suddenly I heard my poor cousin scream in the dark: 'Fridolin,
I'm sticking!' Then all I heard was a short desperate scuffle,
followed by complete silence, and in a few moments the woodpecker
was hammering at the house next door. My poor cousin! Her name
was Agatha."

"Feel how my heart is beating," said Maya, in a whisper.
"You oughtn't to have told it so quickly. My goodness, the
things that do happen!" And the little bee thought of her own
adventures in the past and the accidents that might still happen
to her.

A laugh from Fridolin interrupted her reflections. She looked up
in surprise.

"See who's coming," he cried, "coming up the tree. Here's the
fellow for you! I tell you, he's a--but you'll see."

Maya followed the direction of his gaze and saw a remarkable
animal slowly climbing up the trunk. She wouldn't have believed
such a creature was possible if she had not seen it with her own
eyes.

"Hadn't we better hide?" she asked, alarm getting the better of
astonishment.

"Absurd," replied the bark-beetle, "just sit still and be polite
to the gentleman. He is very learned, really, very scholarly,
and what is more, kind and modest and, like most persons of his
type, rather funny. See what he's doing now!"

"Probably thinking," observed Maya, who couldn't get over her
astonishment.

"He's struggling against the wind," said Fridolin, and laughed.
"I hope his legs don't get entangled."

"Are those long threads really his legs?" asked Maya, opening
her eyes wide. "I've never seen the like."

Meanwhile the newcomer had drawn near, and Maya got a better
view of him. He looked as though he were swinging in the air,
his rotund little body hung so high on his monstrously long
legs, which groped for a footing on all sides like a movable
scaffolding of threads. He stepped along cautiously, feeling his
way; the little brown sphere of his body rose and sank, rose and
sank. His legs were so very long and thin that one alone would
certainly not have been enough to support his body. He needed
all at once, unquestionably. As they were jointed in the middle,
they rose high in the air above him.

Maya clapped her hands together.

"Well!" she cried. "Did you ever? Would you have dreamed that
such delicate legs, legs as fine as a hair, could be so nimble
and useful--that one could really use them--and they'd know
what to do? Fridolin, I think it's wonderful, simply wonderful."

"Ah, bah," said the bark-beetle. "Don't take things so
seriously. Just laugh when you see something funny; that's all."

"But I don't feel like laughing. Often we laugh at something and
later find out it was just because we haven't understood."

By this time the stranger had joined them and was looking down
at Maya from the height of his pointed triangles of legs.

"Good-morning," he said, "a real wind-storm--a pretty strong
draught, don't you think, or--no? You are of a different
opinion?" He clung to the tree as hard as he could.

Fridolin turned to hide his laughing, but little Maya replied
politely that she quite agreed with him and that was why she had
not gone out flying. Then she introduced herself. The stranger
squinted down at her through his legs.

"Maya, of the nation of bees," he repeated. "Delighted, really.
I have heard a good deal about bees.-- I myself belong to the
general family of spiders, species daddy-long-legs, and my name
is Hannibal."

The word spider has an evil sound in the ears of all smaller
insects, and Maya could not quite conceal her fright, especially
as she was reminded of her agony in Thekla's web. Hannibal
seemed to take no notice, so Maya decided, "Well if need be I'll
fly away, and he can whistle for me; he has no wings and his web
is somewhere else."

"I am thinking," said Hannibal, "thinking very hard.-- If you
will permit me, I will come a little closer. That big branch
there makes a good shield against the wind."

"Why, certainly," said Maya, making room for him.

Fridolin said good-by and left. Maya stayed; she was eager to
get at Hannibal's personality.

"The many, many different kinds of animals there are in the
world," she thought. "Every day a fresh discovery."

The wind had subsided some, and the sun shone through the
branches. From below rose the song of a robin redbreast, filling
the woods with joy. Maya could see it perched on a branch, could
see its throat swell and pulse with the song as it held its
little head raised up to the light.

"If only I could sing like that robin redbreast," she said, "I'd
perch on a flower and keep it up the livelong day."

"You'd produce something lovely, you would, with your humming
and buzzing."

"The bird looks so happy."

"You have great fancies," said the daddy-long-legs. "Supposing
every animal were to wish he could do something that nature had
not fitted him to do, the world would be all topsy-turvy.
Supposing a robin redbreast thought he had to have a sting--a
sting above everything else--or a goat wanted to fly about
gathering honey. Supposing a frog were to come along and
languish for my kind of legs."

Maya laughed.

"That isn't just what I mean. I mean, it seems lovely to be able
to make all beings as happy as the bird does with his song.-- But
goodness gracious!" she exclaimed suddenly. "Mr. Hannibal, you
have one leg too many."

Hannibal frowned and looked into space, vexed.

"Well, you've noticed it," he said glumly. "But as a matter of
fact--one leg too few, not too many."

"Why? Do you usually have eight legs?"

"Permit me to explain. We spiders have eight legs. We need them
all. Besides, eight is a more aristocratic number. One of my
legs got lost. Too bad about it. However you manage, you make
the best of it."

"It must be dreadfully disagreeable to lose a leg," Maya
sympathized.

Hannibal propped his chin on his hand and arranged his legs to
keep them from being easily counted.

"I'll tell you how it happened. Of course, as usual when there's
mischief, a human being is mixed up in it. We spiders are
careful and look what we're doing, but human beings are
careless, they grab you sometimes as though you were a piece of
wood. Shall I tell you?"

"Oh, do please," said Maya, settling herself comfortably. "It
would be awfully interesting. You must certainly have gone
through a good deal."

"I should say so," said Hannibal. "Now listen. We daddy-long-legs,
you know, hunt by night. I was then living in a green garden-house.
It was overgrown with ivy, and there were a number of broken
window-panes, which made it very convenient for me to crawl
in and out. The man came at dark. In one hand he carried
his artificial sun, which he calls lamp, in the other hand
a small bottle, under his arm some paper, and in his pocket
another bottle. He put everything down on the table and began
to think, because he wanted to write his thoughts on the
paper.-- You must certainly have come across paper in the
woods or in the garden. The black on the paper is what man
has excogitated--excogitated."

"Marvelous!" cried Maya, all a-glow that she was to learn so
much.

"For this purpose," Hannibal continued, "man needs both bottles.
He inserts a stick into the one and drinks out of the other. The
more he drinks, the better it goes. Of course it is about us
insects that he writes, everything he knows about us, and he
writes strenuously, but the result is not much to boast of,
because up to now man has found out very little in regard to
insects. He is absolutely ignorant of our soul-life and hasn't
the least consideration for our feelings. You'll see."

"Don't you think well of human beings?" asked Maya.

"Oh, yes, yes. But the loss of a leg"--the daddy-long-legs
looked down slantwise--"is apt to embitter one, rather."

"I see," said Maya.

"One evening I was sitting on a window-frame as usual, prepared
for the chase, and the man was sitting at the table, his two
bottles before him, trying to produce something. It annoyed me
dreadfully that a whole swarm of little flies and gnats, upon
which I depend for my subsistence, had settled upon the
artificial sun and were staring into it in that crude, stupid,
uneducated way of theirs."

"Well," observed Maya, "I think I'd look at a thing like that
myself."

"Look, for all I care. But to look and to stare like an idiot
are two entirely different things. Just watch once and see the
silly jig they dance around a lamp. It's nothing for them to
butt their heads about twenty times. Some of them keep it up
until they burn their wings. And all the time they stare and
stare at the light."

"Poor creatures! Evidently they lose their wits."

"Then they had better stay outside on the window-frame or under
the leaves. They're safe from the lamp there, and that's where I
can catch them.-- Well, on that fateful night I saw from my
position on the window-frame that some gnats were lying
scattered on the table beside the lamp drawing their last
breath. The man did not seem to notice or care about them, so I
decided to go and take them myself. That's perfectly natural,
isn't it?"

"Perfectly."

"And yet, it was my undoing. I crept up the leg of the table,
very softly, on my guard, until I could peep over the edge. The
man seemed dreadfully big. I watched him working. Then, slowly,
very slowly, carefully lifting one leg at a time, I crossed over
to the lamp. As long as I was covered by the bottle all went
well, but I had scarcely turned the corner, when the man looked
up and grabbed me. He lifted me by one of my legs, dangled me in
front of his huge eyes, and said: 'See what's here, just see
what's here.' And he grinned--the brute!--he grinned with his
whole face, as though it were a laughing matter."

Hannibal sighed, and little Maya kept quite still. Her head was
in a whirl.

"Have human beings such immense eyes?" she asked at last.

"Please think of _me_ in the position _I_ was in," cried
Hannibal, vexed. "Try to imagine how I felt. Who'd like to be
hanging by the leg in front of eyes twenty times as big as his
own body and a mouth full of gleaming teeth, each fully twice as
big as himself? Well, what do you think?"

"Awful! Perfectly awful!"

"Thank the Lord, my leg broke off. There's no telling what might
have happened if my leg had not broken off. I fell to the table,
and then I ran, I ran as fast as my remaining legs would take
me, and hid behind the bottle. There I stood and hurled threats
of violence at the man. They saved me, my threats did, the man
was afraid to run after me. I saw him lay my leg on the white
paper, and I watched how it wanted to escape--which it can't do
without me."

"Was it still moving?" asked Maya, prickling at the thought.

"Yes. Our legs always do move when they're pulled out. My leg
ran, but I not being there it didn't know where to run to, so it
merely flopped about aimlessly on the same spot, and the man
watched it, clutching at his nose and smiling--smiling, the
heartless wretch!--at my leg's sense of duty."

"Impossible," said the little bee, quite scared, "an offen leg
can't crawl."

"An offen leg? _What_ is an offen leg?"

"A leg that has come off," explained Maya, staring at him.
"Don't you know? At home we children used the word offen for
anything that had come off."

"You should drop your nursery slang when you're out in the world
and in the presence of cultured people," said Hannibal severely.
"But it _is_ true that our legs totter long after they have been
torn from our bodies."

"I can't believe it without proof."

"Do you think I'll tear one of my legs off to satisfy you?"
Hannibal's tone was ugly. "I see you're not a fit person to
associate with. Nobody, I'd like you to know, _no_body has ever
doubted my word before."

Maya was terribly put out. She couldn't understand what had
upset the daddy-long-legs so, or what dreadful thing she had
done.

"It isn't altogether easy to get along with strangers," she
thought. "They don't think the way we do and don't see that we
mean no harm." She was depressed and cast a troubled look at the
spider with his long legs and soured expression.

"Really, someone ought to come and eat you up."

Hannibal had evidently mistaken Maya's good nature for weakness.
For now something unusual happened to the little bee. Suddenly
her depression passed and gave way, not to alarm or timidity,
but to a calm courage. She straightened up, lifted her lovely,
transparent wings, uttered her high clear buzz, and said with a
gleam in her eyes:

"I am a bee, Mr. Hannibal."

"I beg your pardon," said he, and without saying good-by turned
and ran down the tree-trunk as fast as a person can run who has
seven legs.

Maya had to laugh, willy-nilly. From down below Hannibal began
to scold.

"You're bad. You threaten helpless people, you threaten them with
your sting when you know they're handicapped by a misfortune and
can't get away fast. But your hour is coming, and when you're
in a tight place you'll think of me and be sorry." Hannibal
disappeared under the leaves of the coltsfoot on the ground.
His last words had not reached the little bee.

The wind had almost died away, and the day promised to be fine.
White clouds sailed aloft in a deep, deep blue, looking happy
and serene like good thoughts of the Lord. Maya was cheered. She
thought of the rich shaded meadows by the woods and of the sunny
slopes beyond the lake. A blithe activity must have begun there
by this time. In her mind she saw the slim grasses waving and
the purple iris that grew in the rills at the edge of the woods.
From the flower of an iris you could look across to the
mysterious night of the pine-forest and catch its cool breath of
melancholy. You knew that its forbidding silence, which
transformed the sunshine into a reddish half-light of sleep, was
the home of the fairy tale.

Maya was already flying. She had started off instinctively, in
answer to the call of the meadows and their gay carpeting of
flowers. It was a joy to be alive.



Thus the days and weeks of her young life passed for little Maya
among the insects in a lovely summer world--a happy roving in
garden and meadow, occasional risks and many joys. For all that,
she often missed the companions of her early childhood and now
and again suffered a pang of homesickness, an ache of longing
for her people and the kingdom she had left. There were hours,
too, when she yearned for regular, useful work and association
with friends of her own kind.

However, at bottom she had a restless nature, little Maya had,
and was scarcely ready to settle down for good and live in the
community of the bees; she wouldn't have felt comfortable. Often
among animals as well as human beings there are some who cannot
conform to the ways of the others. Before we condemn them we
must be careful and give them a chance to prove themselves. For
it is not always laziness or stubbornness that makes them
different. Far from it. At the back of their peculiar urge is a
deep longing for something higher or better than what every-day
life has to offer, and many a time young runaways have grown up
into good, sensible, experienced men and women.

Little Maya was a pure, sensitive soul, and her attitude to the
big, beautiful world came of a genuine eagerness for knowledge
and a great delight in the glories of creation.

Yet it is hard to be alone even when you are happy, and the
more Maya went through, the greater became her yearning for
companionship and love. She was no longer so very young; she had
grown into a strong, superb creature with sound, bright wings,
a sharp, dangerous sting, and a highly developed sense of both
the pleasures and the hazards of her life. Through her own
experience she had gathered information and stored up wisdom,
which she now often wished she could apply to something of real
value. There were days when she was ready to return to the hive
and throw herself at the queen's feet and sue for pardon and
honorable reinstatement. But a great, burning desire held her
back--the desire to know human beings. She had heard so many
contradictory things about them that she was confused rather
than enlightened. Yet she had a feeling that in the whole of
creation there were no beings more powerful or more intelligent
or more sublime than they.

A few times in her wanderings she had seen people, but only from
afar, from high up in the air--big and little people, black
people, white people, red people, and such as dressed in many
colors. She had never ventured close. Once she had caught the
glimmer of red near a brook, and thinking it was a bed of
flowers had flown down. She found a human being fast asleep
among the brookside blossoms. It had golden hair and a pink face
and wore a red dress. It was dreadfully large, of course, but
still it looked so good and sweet that Maya thrilled, and tears
came to her eyes. She lost all sense of her whereabouts; she
could do nothing but gaze and gaze upon the slumbering presence.
All the horrid things she had ever heard against man seemed
utterly impossible. Lies they must have been--mean lies that
she had been told against creatures as charming as this one
asleep in the shade of the whispering birch-trees.

After a while a mosquito came and buzzed greetings.

"Look!" cried Maya, hot with excitement and delight. "Look, just
look at that human being there. How good, how beautiful! Doesn't
it fill you with enthusiasm?"

The mosquito gave Maya a surprised stare, then turned slowly
round to glance at the object of her admiration.

"Yes, it _is_ good. I just tasted it. I stung it. Look, my body
is shining red with its blood."

Maya had to press her hand to her heart, so startled was she by
the mosquito's daring.

"Will it die?" she cried. "Where did you wound it? How could
you? How could you screw up your courage to sting it? And how
vile! Why, you're a beast of prey!"

The mosquito tittered.

"Why, it's only a very little human being," it answered in its
high, thin voice. "It's the size called girl--the size at which
the legs are covered half way up with a separate colored casing.
My sting, of course, goes through the casing but usually doesn't
reach the skin.-- Your ignorance is really stupendous. Do you
actually think that human beings are good? I haven't come across
one who willingly let me take the tiniest drop of his blood."

"I don't know very much about human beings, I admit," said Maya
humbly.

"But of all the insects you bees have most to do with human
beings. That's a well-known fact."

"I left our kingdom," Maya confessed timidly. "I didn't like it.
I wanted to learn about the outside world."

"Well, well, what do you think of that!" The mosquito drew a
step nearer. "How do you like your free-lancing? I must say,
I admire you for your independence. I for one would never
consent to serve human beings."

"But they serve us too!" said Maya, who couldn't bear a slight
to be put upon her people.

"Maybe.-- To what nation do you belong?"

"I come of the nation in the castle park. The ruling queen is
Helen VIII."

"Indeed," said the mosquito, and bowed low. "An enviable
lineage. My deepest respects.-- There was a revolution in your
kingdom not so long ago, wasn't there? I heard it from the
messengers of the rebel swarm. Am I right?"

"Yes," said Maya, proud and happy that her nation was so
respected and renowned. Homesickness for her people awoke again,
deep down in her heart, and she wished she could do something
good and great for her queen and country. Carried away on the
wings of this dream, she forgot to ask about human beings. Or,
like as not, she refrained from questions, feeling that the
mosquito would not tell her things she would be glad to hear.
The mite of a creature impressed her as a saucy Miss, and people
of her kind usually had nothing good to say of others. Besides,
she soon flew away.

"I'm going to take one more drink," she called back to Maya.
"Later I and my friends are going flying in the light of
the westering sun. Then we'll be sure to have good weather
to-morrow."

Maya made off quickly. She couldn't bear to stay and see the
mosquito hurt the sleeping child. And how could she do this
thing and not perish? Hadn't Cassandra said: "If you sting a
human being, you will die?"

Maya still remembered every detail of this incident with the
child and the mosquito, but her craving to know human beings
well had not been stilled. She made up her mind to be bolder and
never stop trying until she had reached her goal.


At last Maya's longing to know human beings was to be satisfied,
and in a way far, far lovelier and more wonderful than she had
dreamed.

Once, on a warm evening, having gone to sleep earlier than usual,
she woke up suddenly in the middle of the night--something that
had never happened to her before. When she opened her eyes, her
astonishment was indescribable: her little bedroom was all
steeped in a quiet bluish radiance. It came down through the
entrance, and the entrance itself shone as if hung with a
silver-blue curtain.

Maya did not dare to budge at first, though not because she was
frightened. No. Somehow, along with the light came a rare,
lovely peacefulness, and outside her room the air was filled
with a sound finer, more harmonious than any music she had ever
heard. After a time she rose timidly, awed by the glamour and
the strangeness of it all, and looked out. The whole world
seemed to lie under the spell of an enchantment. Everything was
sparkling and glittering in pure silver. The trunks of the
birch-trees, the slumbering leaves were overlaid with silver.
The grass, which from her height seemed to lie under delicate
veils, was set with a thousand pale pearls. All things near and
far, the silent distances, were shrouded in this soft, bluish
sheen.

"This must be the night," Maya whispered and folded her hands.

High up in the heavens, partly veiled by the leaves of a
beech-tree, hung a full clear disk of silver, from which the
radiance poured down that beautified the world. And then Maya
saw countless bright, sharp little lights surrounding the moon
in the heavens--oh, so still and beautiful, unlike any shining
things she had ever seen before. To think she beheld the night,
the moon, and the stars--the wonders, the lovely wonders of the
night! She had heard of them but never believed in them. It was
almost too much.

Then the sound rose again, the strange night sound that must
have awakened her. It came from nearby, filling the welkin,
a soaring chirp with a silvery ring that matched the silver on
the trees and leaves and grass and seemed to come rilling down
from the moon on the beams of silver light.

Maya looked about for the source, in vain; in the mysterious
drift of light and shadow it was difficult to make out objects
in clear outline, everything was draped so mysteriously; and yet
everything showed up true and in such heroic beauty.

Her room could keep her no longer; out she had to fly into this
new splendor, the night splendor.

"The good Lord will take care of me," she thought, "I am not
bent upon wrong."

As she was about to fly off through the silver light to her
favorite meadow, now lying full under the moon, she saw a winged
creature alight on a beech-tree leaf not far away. Scarcely
alighted, it raised its head to the moon, lifted its narrow
wings, and drew the edge of one against the other, for all the
world as though it were playing on a violin. And sure enough,
the sound came, the silvery chirp that filled the whole moonlit
world with melody.

"Exquisite," whispered Maya, "heavenly, heavenly, heavenly."

She flew over to the leaf. The night was so mild and warm that
she did not notice it was cooler than by day. When she touched
the leaf, the chirper broke off playing abruptly, and to Maya it
seemed as if there had never been such a stillness before, so
profound was the hush that followed. It was uncanny. Through the
dark leaves filtered the light, white and cool.

"Good night," said Maya, politely, thinking "good night" was the
greeting for the night like "good morning" for the morning.
"Please excuse me for interrupting, but the music you make is so
fascinating that I had to find out where it came from."

The chirper stared at Maya, wide-eyed.

"What sort of a crawling creature are you?" it asked after some
moments had passed. "I have never met one like you before."

"I am not a crawling insect. I am Maya, of the nation of bees."

"Oh, of the nation of bees. Indeed ... you live by day, don't
you? I have heard of your race from the hedgehog. He told me
that in the evening he eats the dead bodies that are thrown out
of your hive."

"Yes," said Maya, with a faint chill of apprehension, "that's
so; Cassandra told me about him; she heard of him from the
sentinels. He comes when twilight falls and snouts in the grass
looking for dead bodies.-- But do you associate with the
hedgehog? Why, he's an awful brute."

"I don't think so. We tree-crickets get along with him
splendidly. We call him Uncle. Of course he always tries to
catch us, but he never succeeds, so we have great fun teasing
him. Everybody has to live, doesn't he? Just so he doesn't live
off me, what do I care?"

Maya shook her head. She didn't agree. But not caring to insult
the cricket by contradicting, she changed the subject.

"So you're a tree-cricket?"

"Yes, a snowy tree-cricket.-- But I must play, so please don't
keep me any longer. It's full moon, a wonderful night. I must
play."

"Oh, do make an exception this once. You play all the time.-- Tell
me about the night."

"A midsummer night is the loveliest in the world," answered the
cricket. "It fills the heart with rapture.-- But what my music
doesn't tell you I shan't be able to explain. Why _need_
everything be explained? Why _know_ everything? We poor
creatures can find out only the tiniest bit about existence. Yet
we can _feel_ the glory of the whole wide world." And the
cricket set up its happy silvery strumming. Heard from close by,
where Maya sat, the music was overpowering in its loudness.

The little bee sat quite still in the blue summer night
listening and musing deeply about life and creation.

Silence fell. There was a faint whirr, and Maya saw the cricket
fly out into the moonlight.

"The night makes one feel sad," she reflected.

Her flowery meadow drew her now. She flew off.

At the edge of the brook stood the tall irises brokenly
reflected in the running water. A glorious sight. The moonlight
was whirled along in the braided current, the wavelets winked
and whispered, the irises seemed to lean over asleep. "Asleep
from sheer delight," thought the little bee. She dropped down on
a blue petal in the full light of the moon and could not take
her eyes from the living waters of the brook, the quivering
flash, the flashing come and go of countless sparks. On the bank
opposite, the birch-trees glittered as if hung with the stars.

"Where is all that water flowing to?" she wondered. "The cricket
is right. We know so little about the world."

Of a sudden a fine little voice rose in song from the flower of
an iris close beside her, ringing like a pure, clear bell,
different from any earthly sound that Maya knew. Her heart
throbbed, she held her breath.

"Oh, what is going to happen? What am I going to see now?"

The iris swayed gently. One of the petals curved in at the edge,
and Maya saw a tiny snow-white human hand holding on to the
flower's rim with its wee little fingers. Then a small blond
head arose, and then a delicate luminous body in white garments.
A human being in miniature was coming up out of the iris.

Words cannot tell Maya's awe and rapture. She sat rigid.

The tiny being climbed to the edge of the blossom, lifted its
arms up to the moonlight, and looked out into the bright shining
night with a smile of bliss lighting up its face. Then a faint
quiver shook its luminous body, and from its shoulders two wings
unfolded, whiter than the moonlight, pure as snow, rising above
its blond head and reaching down to its feet. How lovely it was,
how exquisitely lovely. Nothing that Maya had ever seen compared
with it in loveliness.

Standing there in the moonlight, holding its hands up to heaven,
the luminous little being lifted its voice again and sang. The
song rang out in the night, and Maya understood the words.

  My home is Light. The crystal bowl
    Of Heaven's blue, I love it so!
    Both Death and Life will change, I know,
  But not my soul, my living soul.

  My soul is that which breathes anew
    From all of loveliness and grace;
    And as it flows from God's own face,
  It flows from His creations, too.

Maya burst into sobs. What it was that made her so sad and yet
so happy, she could not have told.

The little human being turned around.

"Who is crying?" he asked in his chiming voice.

"It's only me," stammered Maya. "Excuse me for interrupting
you."

"But why are you crying?"

"I don't know. Perhaps just because you are so beautiful. Who
are you? Oh, do tell me, if I am not asking too much. You are an
angel, aren't you? You must be."

"Oh, no," said the little creature, quite serious. "I am only a
sprite, a flower-sprite.-- But, dear little bee, what are you
doing out here in the meadow so late at night?"

The sprite flew over to a curving iris blade beside Maya and
regarded her long and kindly from his swaying perch in the
moonlight.

Maya told him all about herself, what she had done, what she
knew, and what she longed for. And while she spoke, his eyes
never left her, those large dark eyes glowing in the white fairy
face under the golden hair that ever and anon shone like silver
in the moonlight.

When she finished he stroked her head and looked at her so
warmly and lovingly that the little bee, beside herself with
joy, had to lower her gaze.

"We sprites," he explained, "live seven nights, but we must stay
in the flower in which we are born, else we die at dawn."

Maya opened her eyes wide in terror.

"Then hurry, hurry! Fly back into your flower!"

The, sprite shook his head sadly.

"Too late.-- But listen. I have more to tell you. Most of us
sprites are glad to leave our flowers never to return, because a
great happiness is connected with our leaving. We are endowed
with a remarkable power: before we die, we can fulfill the
dearest wish of the first creature we meet. It is when we make
up our minds seriously to leave the flower for the purpose of
making someone happy that our wings grow."

"How wonderful!" cried Maya. "I'd leave the flower too, then. It
must be lovely to fulfill another person's wish." That _she_ was
the first being whom the sprite on his flight from the flower
had met, did not occur to her. "And then--must you die?"

The sprite nodded, but not sadly this time.

"We live to see the dawn still," he said, "but when the dew
falls, we are drawn into the fine cobwebby veils that float
above the grass and the flowers of the meadows. Haven't you
often noticed that the veils shine white as though a light were
inside them? It's the sprites, their wings and their garments.
When the light rises we change into dew-drops. The plants drink
us and we become a part of their growing and blooming until in
time we rise again as sprites from out their flowers."

"Then you were once another sprite?" asked Maya, tense,
breathless with interest.

The earnest eyes said yes.

"But I have forgotten my earlier existence. We forget everything
in our flower-sleep."

"Oh, what a lovely fate!"

"It is the same as that of all earthly creatures, when you
really come to think of it, even if it isn't always flowers out
of which they wake up from their sleep of death. But we won't
talk of that to-night."

"Oh, I'm so happy!" cried Maya.

"Then you haven't got a wish? You're the first person I've met,
you know, and I possess the power to grant your dearest wish."

"I? But I'm only a bee. No, it's too much. It would be too great
a joy. I don't deserve it, I don't deserve that you should be so
good to me."

"No one deserves the good and the beautiful. The good and the
beautiful come to us like the sunshine."

Maya's heart beat stormily. Oh, she did have a wish, a burning
wish, but she didn't dare confess it. The elf seemed to guess;
he smiled so you couldn't keep anything a secret from him.

"Well?" He stroked his golden hair off his pure forehead.

"I'd like to know human beings at their best and most
beautiful," said the little bee. She spoke quickly and hotly.
She was afraid she would be told that so great a wish could not
be granted.

But the sprite drew himself up, his expression was serious and
serene, his eyes shone with confidence. He took Maya's trembling
hand and said:

"Come. We'll fly together. Your wish shall be granted."




And so Maya and the flower-sprite started off together in the
bright mid-summer night, flying low over the blossomy meadow.
His white reflection crossing the brook shone as though a star
were gliding through the water.

How happy the little bee was to confide herself to this gracious
being! Whatever he were to do, wherever he were to lead her
would be good and right, she felt. She would have liked to ask
him a thousand questions had she dared.

As they were passing between a double row of high poplar-trees,
something whirred above them; a dark moth, as big and strong as
a bird, crossed their way.

"One moment, wait one moment, please," the sprite called.

Maya was surprised to see how readily the moth responded.

All three alighted on a high poplar branch, from which there was
a far view out upon the tranquil, moonlit landscape. The quaking
leaves whispered delicately. The moth, perching directly
opposite Maya in the full light of the moon, slowly lifted his
spread wings and dropped them again, softly, as if gently
fanning--fanning a cool breath upon someone. Broad, diagonal
stripes of a gorgeous bright blue marked his wings, his black
head was covered as with dark velvet, his face was like a
strangely mysterious mask, out of which glowed a pair of dark
eyes. How wonderful were the creatures of the night! A little
cold shiver ran through Maya, who felt she was dreaming the
strangest dream of her life.

"You are beautiful," she said to the moth, "beautiful, really."
She was awed and solemn.

"Who is your companion?" the moth asked the sprite.

"A bee. I met her just as I was leaving my flower."

The moth seemed to realize what that meant. He looked at Maya
almost enviously.

"You fortunate creature!" he said in a low, serious, musing
tone, shaking his head to and fro.

"Are you sad?" asked Maya out of the warmth of her heart.

The moth shook his head.

"No, not sad." His voice sounded friendly and grateful, and he
gave Maya such a kind look that she would have liked to strike
up a friendship with him then and there.

"Is the bat still abroad, or has he gone to rest?" This was the
question for which the sprite had stopped the moth.

"Oh, he's gone to rest long ago. You want to know, do you, on
account of your companion?"

The sprite nodded. Maya was dying to find out what a bat was,
but the sprite seemed to be in a hurry. With a charming gesture
of restlessness he tossed his shining hair back from his
forehead.

"Come, Maya," he said, "we must hurry. The night is so short."

"Shall I carry you part of the way?" asked the moth.

The sprite thanked him but declined. "Some other time!" he
called.

"Then it will be never," thought Maya as they flew away,
"because at dawn the flower-sprite must die."

The moth remained on the leaf looking after them until the
glimmer of the fairy garments grew smaller and smaller and
finally sank into the depths of the blue distance. Then he
turned his face slowly and surveyed his great dark wings with
their broad blue stripes. He sank into revery.

"So often I have heard that I am gray and ugly," he said to
himself, "and that my dress is not to be compared with the
superb robes of the butterfly. But the little bee saw only what
is beautiful in me.-- And she asked me if I was sad. I wonder
whether I am or not.-- No, I am not sad," he decided, "not now."

Meanwhile Maya and the flower-sprite flew through the dense
shrubbery of a garden. The glory of it in the dimmed moonlight
was beyond the power of mortal lips to say. An intoxicatingly
sweet cool breath of dew and slumbering flowers transformed all
things into unutterable blessings. The lilac grapes of the
acacias sparkled in freshness, the June rose-tree looked like a
small blooming heaven hung with red lamps, the white stars of
the jasmine glowed palely, sadly, and poured out their perfume
as if, in this one hour, to make a gift of their all.

Maya was dazed. She pressed the sprite's hand and looked at him.
A light of bliss shone from his eyes.

"Who could have dreamed of this!" whispered the little bee.

Just then she saw something that sent a pang through her.

"Oh," she cried, "look! A star has fallen! It's straying about
and can't find its way back to its place in the sky."

"That's a firefly," said the flower-sprite, without a smile.

Now, in the midst of her amazement, Maya realized for the first
time why the sprite seemed so dear and kind. He never laughed at
her ignorance; on the contrary, he helped her when she went
wrong.

"They are odd little creatures," the sprite continued. "They
carry their own light about with them on warm summer nights and
enliven the dark under the shrubbery where the moonlight doesn't
shine through. So firefly can keep tryst with firefly even in
the dark. Later, when we come to the human beings, you will make
the acquaintance of one of them."

"Why?" asked Maya.

"You'll soon see."

By this time they had reached an arbor completely overgrown with
jasmine and woodbine. They descended almost to the ground. From
close by, within the arbor, came the sound of faint whispering.
The flower-sprite beckoned to a firefly.

"Would you be good enough," he asked, "to give us a little
light? We have to push through these dark leaves here; we want
to get to the inside of the jasmine-arbor."

"But your glow is much brighter than mine."

"I think so, too," put in Maya, more to hide her excitement than
anything else.

"I must wrap myself up in a leaf," explained the sprite, "else
the human beings would see me and be frightened. We sprites
appear to human beings only in their dreams."

"I see," said the firefly. "I am at your service. I will do what
I can.-- Won't the great beast with you hurt me?"

The sprite shook his head no, and the firefly believed him.

The sprite now took a leaf and wrapped himself in it; the gleam
of his white garments was completely hidden. Then he picked a
little bluebell from the grass and put it on his shining head
like a helmet. The only bit of him left exposed was his face,
which was so small that surely no one would notice it. He asked
the firefly to perch on his shoulder and with its wing to dim
its lamp on the one side so as to keep the dazzle out of his
eyes.

"Come now," he said, taking Maya's hand. "We had better climb up
right here."

The little bee was thinking of something the sprite had said,
and as they clambered up the vine, she asked:

"Do human beings dream when they sleep?"

"Not only then. They dream sometimes even when they are awake.
They sit with their bodies a little limp, their heads bent a
little forward, and their eyes searching the distance, as if to
see into the very heavens. Their dreams are always lovelier than
life. That's why we appear to them in their dreams."

The sprite now laid his tiny finger on his lips, bent aside a
small blooming sprig of jasmine, and gently pushed Maya ahead.

"Look down," he said softly, "you'll see what you have been
wishing to see."

The little bee looked and saw two human beings sitting on a
bench in the shadows cast by the moonlight--a boy and a girl,
the girl with her head leaning on the boy's shoulder, and the
boy holding his arm around the girl as if to protect her. They
sat in complete stillness, looking wide-eyed into the night.
It was as quiet as if they had both gone to sleep. Only from a
distance came the chirping of the crickets, and slowly, slowly
the moonlight drifted through the leaves.

Maya, transported out of herself, gazed into the girl's face.
Although it looked pale and wistful, it seemed to be transfused
by the hidden radiance of a great happiness. Above her large
eyes lay golden hair, like the golden hair of the sprite, and
upon it rested the heavenly sheen of the midsummer night. From
her red lips, slightly parted, came a breath of rapture and
melancholy, as if she wanted to offer everything that was hers
to the man by her side for his happiness.

And now she turned to him, pulled his head down, and whispered a
magical something that brought a smile to his face such as Maya
thought no earthly being could wear. In his eyes gleamed a
happiness and a vigor as if the whole big world were his to own,
and suffering and misfortune were banished forever from the face
of the earth.

Maya somehow had no desire to know what he said to the girl in
reply. Her heart quivered as though the ecstasy that emanated
from the two human beings was also hers.

"Now I have seen the most glorious thing that my eyes will ever
behold," she whispered to herself. "I know now that human beings
are most beautiful when they are in love."

How long Maya stayed behind the leaves without stirring, lost in
looking at the boy and girl, she did not know. When she turned
round, the firefly's lamp had been extinguished, the sprite was
gone. Through the doorway of the arbor far across the country on
the distant horizon showed a narrow streak of red.




The sun was risen high above the tops of the beech-trees when
Maya awoke in her woodland retreat. In the first moments, the
moonlight, the chirping of the cricket, the midsummer night
meadow, the lovely sprite, the boy and the girl in the arbor,
all seemed the perishing fancies of a delicious dream. Yet here
it was almost midday; and she remembered slipping back into her
chamber in the chill of dawn. So it had all been real, she _had_
spent the night with the flower-sprite and _had_ seen the two
human beings, with their arms round each other, in the arbor of
woodbine and jasmine.

The sun outside was glowing hot on the leaves, a warm wind was
stirring, and Maya heard the mixed chorus of thousands of
insects. Ah, what these knew, and what _she_ knew! So proud was
she of the great thing that had happened to her that she
couldn't get out to the others fast enough; she thought they
must read it in her very looks.

But in the sunlight everything was the same as ever. Nothing was
changed; nothing recalled the blue moonlit night. The insects
came, said how-do-you-do, and left; yonder, the meadow was a
scene of bustling activity; the insects, birds and butterflies
hopped, flew and flitted in the hot flickering air around the
tall, gay midsummer flowers.

Sadness fell upon Maya. There was no one in the world to share
her joys and sorrows. She couldn't make up her mind to fly over
and join the others in the meadow. No, she would go to the
woods. The woods were serious and solemn. They suited her mood.

How many mysteries and marvels lie hidden in the dim depths
of the woods, no one suspects who hurries unobservant along
the beaten tracks. You must bend aside the branches of the
underbrush, or lean down and peep between the blackberry briars
through the tall grasses and across the thick moss. Under the
shaded leaves of the plants, in holes in the ground and
tree-trunks, in the decaying bark of stumps, in the curl and
twist of the roots that coil on the ground like serpents, there
is an active, multiform life by day and by night, full of joys
and dangers, struggles and sorrows and pleasures.

Maya divined only a little of this as she flew low between the
dark-brown trunks under the leafy roof of green. She followed a
narrow trail in the grass, which made a clear path through
thicket and clearing. Now and then the sun seemed to disappear
behind clouds, so deep was the shade under the high foliage and
in the close shrubbery; but soon she was flying again through a
bright shimmer of gold and green above the broad-leaved
miniature forests of bracken and blackberry.

After a long stretch the woods opened their columned and
over-arched portals; before Maya's eyes lay a wide field of
grain in the golden sunshine. Butterfly-weed flamed on the
grassy borders. She alighted on the branch of a birch-tree at
the edge of the field and gazed upon the sea of gold that spread
out endlessly in the tranquillity of the placid day. It rippled
softly under the shy summer breeze, which blew gently so as not
to disturb the peace of the lovely world.

Under the birch-tree a few small brown butterflies, using the
butterfly-weed for corners, were playing puss-in-the-corner,
a favorite game with butterfly-children. Maya watched them a
while.

"It must be lots of fun," she thought, "and the children in the
hive might be taught to play it, too. The cells would do for
corners.-- But Cassandra, I suppose, wouldn't permit it. She's
so strict."

Ah, now Maya felt sad again. Because she had thought of home.
And she was about to drift off into homesick revery when she
heard someone beside her say:

"Good morning. You're a beast, it seems to me."

Maya turned with a start.

"No," she said, "decidedly not."

There sitting on her leaf was a little polished terra-cotta
half-sphere with seven black dots on its cupola of a back,
a minute black head and bright little eyes. Peeping from under
the dotted dome and supporting it as best they could Maya
detected thin legs fine as threads. In spite of his queer
figure, she somehow took a great liking to the stout little
fellow; he had distinct charm.

"May I ask who you are? I myself am Maya of the nation of bees."

"Do you mean to insult me? You have no reason to."

"But why should I? I don't know you, really I don't." Maya was
quite upset.

"It's easy to _say_ you don't know me.-- Well, I'll jog your
memory. Count." And the little rotundity began to wheel round
slowly.

"You mean I'm to count your dots?"

"Yes, if you please."

"Seven," said Maya.

"Well?-- Well? You still don't know. All right then, I'll tell
you. I'm called exactly according to what you counted. The
scientific name of our family is Septempunctata. _Septem_ is
Latin for seven, _punctata_ is Latin for dots, points, you see.
Our common name is ladybird, my own name is Alois, I am a poet
by profession. You know our common name, of course."

Maya, afraid of hurting Alois' feelings, didn't dare to say no.

"Oh," said he, "I live by the sunshine, by the peace of the day,
and by the love of mankind."

"But don't you eat, too?" asked Maya, quite astonished.

"Of course. Plant-lice. Don't you?"

"No. That would be--that is...."

"Is what? Is what?"

"Not--usual," said Maya shyly.

"Of course, of course!" cried Alois, trying to raise one
shoulder, but not succeeding, on account of the firm set of his
dome. "As a bourgeoise you would, of course, do only what is
usual. We poets would not get very far that way.-- Have you
time?"

"Why, yes," said Maya.

"Then I'll recite you one of my poems. Sit real still and close
your eyes, so that nothing distracts your attention. The poem is
called _Man's Finger_, and is about a personal experience. Are
you listening?"

"Yes, to every word."

"Well, then:

  "'Since you did not do me wrong,
    That you found me, doesn't matter.
  You are rounded, you are long;
    Up above you wear a flatter,
    Pointed, polished sheath or platter
  Which you move as swift as light,
  But below you're fastened tight!'"

"Well?" asked Alois after a short pause. There were tears in his
eyes and a quaver in his voice.

"_Man's Finger_ gripped me very hard," replied Maya in some
embarrassment. She really knew much lovelier poems.

"How do you find the form?" Alois questioned with a smile of
fine melancholy. He seemed to be overwhelmed by the effect he
had produced.

"Long and round. You yourself said so in the poem."

"I mean the artistic form, the form of my verse."

"Oh--oh, yes. Yes, I thought it was very good."

"It is, isn't it!" cried Alois. "What you mean to say is that
_Man's Finger_ may be ranked among the best poems you know of,
and one must go way back in literature before one comes across
anything like it. The prime requisite in art is that it should
contain something new, which is what most poets forget. And
bigness, too. Don't you agree with me?"

"Certainly," said Maya, "I think...."

"The firm belief you express in my importance as a poet really
overwhelms me. I thank you.-- But I must be going now, for
solitude is the poet's pride. Farewell."

"Farewell," echoed Maya, who really didn't know just what the
little fellow had been after.

"Well," she thought, "_he_ knows. Perhaps he's not full grown
yet; he certainly isn't large." She looked after him, as he
hastened up the branch. His wee legs were scarcely visible;
he looked as though he were moving on low rollers.

Maya turned her gaze away, back to the golden field of grain
over which the butterflies were playing. The field and the
butterflies gave her ever so much more pleasure than the poetry
of Alois, ladybird and poet.



How happily the day had begun and how miserably it was to end!

Before the horror swept upon her, Maya had formed a very
remarkable acquaintance. It was in the afternoon near a big old
water-butt. She was sitting amid the scented elder blossoms,
which lay mirrored in the placid dark surface of the butt, and a
robin redbreast was warbling overhead, so sweetly and merrily
that Maya thought it was a shame, a crying shame that she,
a bee, could not make friends with the charming songsters. The
trouble was, they were too big and ate you up.

She had hidden herself in the heart of the elder blossoms and
was listening and blinking under the pointed darts of the
sunlight, when she heard someone beside her sigh. Turning round
she saw--well, now it really _was_ the strangest of all the
strange creatures she had ever met. It must have had at least a
hundred legs along each side of its body--so she thought at
first glance. It was about three times her size, and slim, low,
and wingless.

"For goodness sake! Mercy on me!" Maya was quite startled. "You
must certainly be able to run!"

The stranger gave her a pondering look.

"I doubt it," he said. "I doubt it. There's room for
improvement. I have too many legs. You see, before all my legs
can be set in motion, too much time is lost. I didn't use to
realize this, and often wished I had a few more legs. But God's
will be done.-- Who are you?"

Maya introduced herself. The other one nodded and moved some of
his legs.

"I am Thomas of the family of millepeds. We are an old race, and
we arouse admiration and astonishment in all parts of the globe.
No other animals can boast anything like our number of legs.
Eight is _their_ limit, so far as I know."

"You are tremendously interesting. And your color is so queer.
Have you got a family?"

"Why, no! Why should I? What good would a family do me? We
millepeds crawl out of our eggs; that's all. If _we_ can't stand
on our own feet, who should?"

"Of course, of course," Maya observed thoughtfully. "But have
you no relations?"

"No, dear child. I earn my living, and doubt. I doubt."

"Oh! _What_ do you doubt?"

"I was born doubting. I must doubt."

Maya stared at him in wide-eyed bewilderment. What did he mean,
what could he possibly mean? She couldn't for the life of her
make out, but she did not want to pry too curiously into his
private affairs.

"For one thing," said Thomas after a pause, "for one thing I
doubt whether you have chosen a good place to rest in. Don't you
know what's over there in the big willow?"

"No."

"You see! I doubted right away if you knew. The city of the
hornets is over there."

Maya turned deathly white and nearly fell off the elder
blossoms. In a voice shaking with fright, she asked just where
the city was.

"Do you see that old nesting-box for starlings, there in the
shrubbery near the trunk of the willow-tree? It's so poorly
placed that I doubted from the first whether starlings would
ever move in. If a bird-house isn't set with its door facing the
sunrise, every decent bird will think twice before taking
possession. Well, the hornets have entrenched themselves in it.
It's the biggest hornets' fortress in the country. You as a bee
certainly ought to know of the place. Why, the hornets are
brigands who lie in wait for you bees. So, at least, I have
observed."

Maya scarcely heard what he was saying. There, showing clear
against the green, she saw the brown walls of the fortress. She
almost stopped breathing.

"I must fly away," she cried.

Too late! Behind her sounded a loud, mean laugh. At the same
moment the little bee felt herself caught by the neck, so
violently that she thought her joints were broken. It was a
laugh she would never forget, like a vile taunt out of hellish
darkness. Mingling with it was another gruesome sound, the awful
clanking of armor.

Thomas let go with all his legs at once and tumbled head over
heels through the branches into the water-butt.

"I doubt if you get away alive," he called back. But the poor
little bee no longer heard.

She couldn't see her assailant, her neck was caught in too firm
a grip, but a gilt-sheathed arm passed before her eyes, and a
huge head with dreadful pincers suddenly thrust itself above her
face. She took it at first to belong to a gigantic wasp, but
then realized that she had fallen into the clutches of a hornet.
The black-and-yellow striped monster was surely four times her
size.

Maya lost sight, hearing, speech; every nerve in her body went
faint. At length her voice came back, and she screamed for help.

"Never mind, girlie," said the hornet in a honey-sweet tone that
was sickening. "Never mind. It'll last until it's over." He
smiled a baleful smile.

"Let go!" cried Maya. "Let me go! Or I'll sting you in your
heart."

"In my heart right away? Very brave. But there's time for that
later."

Maya went into a fury. Summoning all her strength, she twisted
herself around, uttered her shrill battle-cry, and directed her
sting against the middle of the hornet's breast. To her
amazement and horror, the sting, instead of piercing his breast,
swerved on the surface. The brigand's armor was impervious.

Wrath gleamed in his eyes.

"I could bite your head off, little one, to punish you for your
impudence. And I would, too, I would indeed, but for our queen.
She prefers fresh bees to dead carcasses. So a good soldier
saves a juicy morsel like you to bring to her alive."

The hornet, with Maya still in his grip, rose into the air and
made directly for the fortress.

"This is too awful," thought the poor little bee. "No one can
stand this." She fainted.

When she came to her senses, she found herself in half darkness,
in a sultry dusk permeated by a horrid, pungent smell. Slowly
everything came back to her. A great paralyzing sadness settled
in her heart. She wanted to cry: the tears refused to come.

"I haven't been eaten up yet, but I may be, any moment," she
thought in a tremble.

Through the walls of her prison she caught the distinct sound of
voices, and soon she noticed that a little light filtered
through a narrow chink. The hornets make their walls, not of wax
like the bees, but of a dry mass resembling porous grey paper.
By the one thread of light she managed bit by bit to make out
her surroundings. Horror of horrors! Maya was almost congealed
with fright: the floor was strewn with the bodies of dead
insects. At her very feet lay a little rose-beetle turned over
on its back; to one side was the skeleton of a large locust
broken in two, and everywhere were the remains of slaughtered
bees, their wings and legs and sheaths.

"Oh, oh, to think this had to happen to me," whimpered little
Maya. She did not dare to stir the fraction of an inch and
pressed herself shivering into the farthest corner of this
chamber of horrors.

Again she heard voices on the other side of the wall. Impelled
by mortal fear, she crept up to the chink and peeped through.
What she saw was a vast hall crowded with hornets and
magnificently illuminated by a number of captive glow-worms.
Enthroned in their midst sat the queen, who seemed to be holding
an important council. Maya caught every word that was said.

If those glittering monsters had not inspired her with such
unspeakable horror, she would have gone into raptures over their
strength and magnificence. It was the first time she had had a
good view of any of the race of brigands. Tigers they looked
like, superb tigers of the insect world, with their tawny
black-barred bodies. A shiver of awe ran through the little bee.

A sergeant-at-arms went about the walls of the hall ordering the
glow-worms to give all the light they could; they must strain
themselves to the utmost. He muttered his commands in a low
voice, so as not to interrupt the deliberations, and thrust at
them with a long spear, hissing as he did so:

"Light up, or I'll eat you!"

Terrible the things that were done in the fortress of the
hornets!

Then Maya heard the queen say:

"Very well, we shall abide by the arrangements we have made.
To-morrow, one hour before dawn, the warriors will assemble and
sally forth to the attack on the city of the bees in the castle
park. The hive is to be plundered and as many prisoners taken as
possible. He who captures Queen Helen VIII and brings her to me
alive will be dubbed a knight. Go forth and be brave and
victorious and bring back rich booty.-- The meeting is herewith
adjourned. Sleep well, my warriors. I bid you good-night."

The queen-hornet rose from her throne and left the hall
accompanied by her body-guard.

Maya nearly cried out loud.

"My country!" she sobbed, "my bees, my dear, dear bees!" She
pressed her hands to her mouth to keep herself from screaming.
She was in the depths of despair. "Oh, would that I had died
before I heard this. No one will warn my people. They will be
attacked in their sleep and massacred. O God, perform a miracle,
help me, help me and my people. Our need is great!"

In the hall the glow-worms were put out and devoured. Gradually
the fortress was wrapped in a hush. Maya seemed to have been
forgotten. A faint twilight crept into her cell, and she
thought she caught the strumming of the crickets' night song
outside.-- Was anything more horrible than this dungeon with
its carcasses strewn on the ground!




Soon, however, the little bee's despair yielded to a definite
resolve. It was as though she once more called to mind that she
was a bee.

"Here I am weeping and wailing," she thought, "as if I had no
brains and as if I were a weakling. Oh, I'm not much of an honor
to my people and my queen. They are in danger. I am doomed
anyhow. So since death is certain one way or another, I may as
well be proud and brave and do everything I can to try to save
them."

It was as though Maya had completely forgotten the long time
that had passed since she left her home. More strongly than ever
she felt herself one of her people; and the great responsibility
that suddenly devolved upon her, through the knowledge of the
hornets' plot, filled her with fine courage and determination.

"If my people are to be vanquished and killed, I want to be
killed, too. But first I must do everything in my power to save
them."

"Long live my queen!" she cried.

"Quiet in there!" clanged harshly from the outside.

Ugh, what an awful voice!-- The watchman making his rounds.-- Then
it was already late in the night.

As soon as the watchman's footsteps had died away, Maya began to
widen the chink through which she had peeped into the hall. It
was easy to bite away the brittle stuff of the partition, though
it took some time before the opening was large enough to admit
her body. At length, in the full knowledge that discovery would
cost her her life, she squeezed through into the hall. From
remote depths of the fortress echoed the sound of loud snoring.

The hall lay in a subdued blue light that found its way in
through the distant entrance.

"The moonlight!" Maya said to herself. She began to creep
cautiously toward the exit, cowering close in the deep shadows
of the walls, until she reached the high, narrow passageway that
led from the hall to the opening through which the light shone.
She heaved a deep sigh. Far, far away glimmered a star.

"Liberty!" she thought.

The passageway was quite bright. Softly, stepping oh so very
softly, Maya crept on. The portal came nearer and nearer.

"If I fly now," she thought, "I'll be out in one dash." Her
heart pounded as if ready to burst.

But there in the shadow of the doorway stood a sentinel leaning
against a column.

Maya stood still, rooted to the spot. Vanished all her hopes.
Gone the chance of escape. There was no getting by that
formidable figure. What was she to do? Best go back where she
had come from. But the sight of the giant in the doorway held
her in a spell. He seemed to be lost in revery. He stood gazing
out upon the moon-washed landscape, his head tilted slightly
forward, his chin propped on his hand. How his golden cuirass
gleamed in the moonlight! Something in the way he stood there
stirred the little bee's emotions.

"He looks so sad," she thought. "How handsome he is, how
superbly he holds himself, how proudly his armor shines! He
never removes it, neither by day nor by night. He is always
ready to rob and fight and die...."

Little Maya quite forgot that this man was her enemy. Ah, how
often the same thing had happened to her--that the goodness of
her heart and her delight in beauty made her lose all sense of
danger.

A golden dart of light shot from the bandit's helmet. He must
have turned his head.

"My God," whispered Maya, "this is the end of me!"

But the sentinel said quietly:

"Just come here, child."

"What!" cried Maya. "You saw me?"

"All the time, child. You bit a hole through the wall, then you
crept along--crept along--tucking yourself very neatly into
the dark places--until you reached the spot where you're
standing. Then you saw me, and you lost heart. Am I right?"

"Yes," said Maya, "quite right." Her whole body shook with
terror. The sentinel, then, had seen her the entire time. She
remembered having heard how keen were the senses of these clever
freebooters.

"What are you doing here?" he asked good-humoredly.

Maya still thought he looked sad. His mind seemed to be far away
and not to concern itself with what was of such moment to her.

"I'd like to get out," she answered. "And I'm not afraid. I was
just startled. You looked so strong and handsome, and your armor
shone so. Now I'll fight you."

The sentinel, slightly astonished, leaned forward, and looked at
Maya and smiled. It was not an ugly smile, and Maya experienced
an entirely new feeling: the young warrior's smile seemed to
exercise a mysterious power over her heart.

"No, little one," he said almost tenderly, "you and I won't
fight. You bees belong to a powerful nation, but man for man we
hornets are stronger. To do single battle with a bee would be
beneath our dignity. If you like you may stay here a little
while and chat. But only a little while. Soon I'll have to wake
the soldiers up; then, back to your cell you must go."

How curious! The hornet's lofty friendliness disarmed Maya more
than anger or hate could have done. The feeling with which he
inspired her was almost admiration. With great sad eyes she
looked up at her enemy, and constrained, as always, to follow
the impulses of her heart, she said:

"I have always heard bad things about hornets. But you are not
bad. I can't believe you're bad."

The warrior looked at Maya.

"There are good people and bad people everywhere," he said,
gravely. "But you mustn't forget we are your enemies, and shall
always remain your enemies."

"Must an enemy always be bad?" asked Maya. "Before, when you
were looking out into the moonlight, I forgot that you were hard
and dangerous. You seemed sad, and I have always thought that
people who were sad couldn't possibly be wicked."

The sentinel said nothing, and Maya continued more boldly:

"You are powerful. If you want to, you can put me back in my
cell, and I'll have to die. But you can also set me free--if
you want to."

At this the warrior drew himself up. His armor clanked, and the
arm he raised shone in the moonlight.

But the moonlight was turning dimmer in the passageway. Was dawn
coming already?

"You are right," he said. "I can. My people and my queen have
entrusted me with this power. My orders are that no bee who has
set foot in this fortress shall leave it alive. I shall keep
faith with my people."

After a pause he added softly as if to himself: "I have learned
by bitter experience how faithlessness can hurt--when Loveydear
forsook me...."

Little Maya was overcome. She did not know what to say. Ah, the
same sentiments moved her, too--love of her own kind, loyalty
to her people. Nothing to be done here but to use force or
strategy. Each did his duty, and yet each remained an enemy to
the other.

But hadn't the sentinel mentioned a name? Hadn't he said
something about someone's having been unfaithful to him?
Loveydear--why, she knew Loveydear--the beautiful dragon-fly
who lived at the lakeside among the waterlilies.

Maya quivered with excitement. Here, perhaps, was her salvation.
But she wasn't quite sure how much good her knowledge would be
to her. So she said prudently:

"Who is Loveydear, if I may ask?"

"Never mind, little one. She's not your affair, and she's lost
to me forever. I shall never find her again."

"I know Miss Loveydear." Maya forced herself to put the utmost
indifference into her tone. "She belongs to the family of
dragon-flies and she's the loveliest lady of all."

A tremendous change came over the warrior. He seemed to have
forgotten where he was. He leapt over to Maya's sides as if
blown by a violent gust.

"What! You know Loveydear? Tell me where she is. Tell me, right
away."

"No."

Maya spoke quietly and firmly; she glowed with secret delight.

"I'll bite your head off if you don't tell." The warrior drew
dangerously close.

"It will be bitten off anyhow. Go ahead. I shan't betray the
lovely dragon-fly. She's a close friend of mine.... You want to
imprison her."

The warrior breathed hard. In the gathering dawn Maya could see
that his forehead was pale and his eyes tragic with the inner
struggle he was waging.

"Good God!" he said wildly. "It's time to rouse the soldiers.-- No,
no, little bee, I don't want to harm Loveydear. I love her,
more dearly than my life. Tell me where I shall find her again."

Maya was clever. She purposely hesitated before she said:

"But I love my life."

"If you tell me where Loveydear lives"--Maya could see that
the sentinel spoke with difficulty and was trembling all
over-- "I'll set you free. You can fly wherever you want."

"Will you keep your word?"

"My word of honor as a brigand," said the sentinel proudly.

Maya could scarcely speak. But, if she was to be in time to warn
her people of the attack, every moment counted. Her heart
exulted.

"Very well," she said, "I believe you. Listen, then. Do you know
the ancient linden-trees near the castle? Beyond them lies one
meadow after another, and finally comes a big lake. In a cove at
the south end where the brook empties into the lake the
waterlilies lie spread out on the water in the sunlight. Near
them, in the rushes, is where Loveydear lives. You'll find her
there every day at noon when the sun is high in the heavens."

The warrior had pressed both hands to his pale brow. He seemed
to be having a desperate struggle with himself.

"You're telling the truth," he said softly and groaned, whether
from joy or pain it was impossible to tell. "She told me she
wanted to go where there were floating white flowers. Those must
be the flowers you speak of. Fly away, then. I thank you."

And actually he stepped aside from the entrance.

Day was breaking.

"A brigand keeps his word," he said.

Not knowing that Maya had overheard the deliberations in the
council chamber, he told himself that one small bee more or less
made little difference. Weren't there hundreds of others?

"Good-by," cried Maya, breathless with haste, and flew off
without a word of thanks.

As a matter of fact, there was no time to spare.




Little Maya summoned every bit of strength and will power she
had left. Like a bullet shot from the muzzle of a gun (bees can
fly faster than most insects), she darted through the purpling
dawn in a lightning beeline for the woods, where she knew she
would be safe for the moment and could hide herself away should
the hornet regret having let her go and follow in pursuit.

Gossamer veils hung everywhere over the level country, big drops
fell from the trees on the dry leaves carpeting the ground, and
the cold in the woods threatened to paralyze little Maya's
wings. No ray of the dawn had as yet found its way between the
trees. The air was as hushed as if the sun had forgotten the
earth, and all creatures had laid themselves to eternal rest.

Maya, therefore, flew high up in the air. Only one thing
mattered--to get back as quickly as strength and wits permitted
to her hive, her people, her endangered home. She must warn her
people. They must prepare against the attack which the terrible
brigands had planned for that very morning. Oh, if only the
nation of bees had the chance to arm and make ready its
defenses, it was well able to cope with its stronger opponents.
But a surprise assault at rising time! What if the queen and the
soldiers were still asleep? The success of the hornets would
then be assured. They would take prisoners and give no quarter.
The butchery would be horrible.

Thinking of the strength and energy of her people, their
readiness to meet death, their devotion to their queen, the
little bee felt a great wrath against their enemies the hornets.
Her beloved people! No sacrifice was too great for them. Little
Maya's heart swelled with the ecstasy of self-sacrifice and the
dauntless courage of enthusiasm.

It was not easy for her to find her way over the woods. Long
before she had ceased to observe landmarks as did the other
bees, who had great distances to come back with their loads of
nectar. She felt she had never flown as high before, the cold
hurt, and she could scarcely distinguish the objects below.

"What can I go by?" she thought. "No one thing stands out.
I shan't be able to reach my people and help them. Oh, oh! And
here I had a chance to atone for my desertion. What shall I do?
What shall I do?"-- Suddenly some secret force steered her in a
certain direction. "_What_ is pushing and pulling me? It must be
homesickness guiding me back to my country." She gave herself up
to the instinct and flew swiftly on. Soon, in the distance,
looking like grey domes in the dim light of the dawn, showed the
mighty lindens of the castle park. She exclaimed with delight.
She knew where she was. She dropped closer to the earth. In the
meadows on one side hung the luminous wisps of fog, thicker here
than in the woods. She thought of the flower-sprites who
cheerfully died their early death inside the floating veils.
That inspired her anew with confidence. Her anxiety disappeared.
Let her people spurn her from the kingdom, let the queen punish
her for desertion, if only the bees were spared this dreadful
calamity of the hornets' invasion.

Close to the long stone wall shone the silver-fir that shielded
the bee-city against the west wind. And there--she could see
them distinctly now--were the red, blue, and green portals of
her homeland. The stormy pounding of her heart nearly robbed her
of her breath. But on she flew toward the red entrance which led
to her people and her queen.

On the flying-board, two sentinels blocked the entrance and laid
hands upon her. Maya was too breathless to utter a syllable, and
the sentinels threatened to kill her. For a bee to force its way
into a strange city without the queen's consent is a capital
offense.

"Stand back!" cried one sentinel, thrusting her roughly away.
"What's the matter with you! If you don't leave this instant,
you'll die.-- Did you ever!" He turned to the other sentinel.
"Have you ever seen the like, and before daytime too?"

Now Maya pronounced the password by which all the bees knew one
another. The sentinels instantly released her.

"What!" they cried. "You are one of us, and we don't know you?"

"Let me get to the queen," groaned the little bee. "Right away,
quick! We are in terrible danger."

The sentinels still hesitated. They couldn't grasp the
situation.

"The queen may not be awakened before sunrise," said the one.

"Then," Maya screamed, her voice rising to a passionate yell
such as the sentinels had probably never heard from a bee
before, "then the queen will never wake up alive. Death is
following at my heels. Take me to the queen! Take me to the
queen, I say!" Her voice was so wild and wrathful that the
sentinels were frightened, and obeyed.

The three hurried together through the warm, well-known streets
and corridors. Maya recognized everything, and for all her
excitement and the tremendous need for haste, her heart quivered
with sweet melancholy at the sight of the dear familiar scenes.

"I am at home," she stammered with pale lips.

In the queen's reception room she almost broke down. One of the
sentinels supported her while the other hurried with the unusual
message into the private chambers. Both of them now realized
that something momentous was taking place, and the messenger ran
as fast as his legs would carry him.

The first wax-generators were already up. Here and there a
little head thrust itself out curiously from the openings. The
news of the incident traveled quickly.

Two officers emerged from the private chambers. Maya recognized
them instantly. In solemn silence, without a word to her, they
took their posts, one on each side of the doorway: the queen
would soon appear.

She came without her court, attended only by her aide and two
ladies-in-waiting. She hurried straight over to Maya. When she
saw what a state the child was in, the severe expression on her
face relaxed a little.

"You have come with an important message? Who are you?"

Maya could not speak at once. Finally she managed to frame two
words:

"The hornets!"

The queen turned pale. But her composure was unshaken, and Maya
was somewhat calmed.

"Almighty queen!" she cried. "Forgive me for not respecting the
duties I owe Your Majesty. Later I will tell you everything I
have done. I repent. With my whole heart I repent.-- Just a
little while ago, as by a miracle, I escaped from the fortress
of the hornets, and the last I heard was that they were planning
to attack and plunder our kingdom at dawn."

The wild dismay that the little bee's words produced was
indescribable. The ladies-in-waiting set up a loud wail, the
officers at the door turned pale and made as if to dash off and
sound the alarm, the aide said: "Good God!" and wheeled
completely round, because he wanted to see on all sides at once.

As for the queen, it was really extraordinary to see with what
composure, what resourcefulness she received the dreadful news.
She drew herself up, and there was something in her attitude
that both intimidated and inspired endless confidence. Little
Maya was awed. Never, she felt, had she witnessed anything so
superior. It was like a great, magnificent event in itself.

The queen beckoned the officers to her side and uttered a few
rapid sentences aloud. At the end Maya heard:

"I give you one minute for the execution of my orders.
A fraction of a second longer, and it will cost you your heads."

But the officers scarcely looked as if they needed this
incentive. In less time than it takes to tell they were gone.
Their instant readiness was a joy to behold.

"O my queen!" said Maya.

The queen inclined her head to the little bee, who once again
for a brief moment saw her monarch's countenance beam upon her
gently, lovingly.

"You have our thanks," she said. "You have saved us. No matter
what your previous conduct may have been, you have made up for
it a thousandfold.-- But go, rest now, little girl, you look
very miserable, and your hands are trembling."

"I should like to die for you," Maya stammered, quivering.

"Don't worry about us," replied the queen. "Among the thousands
inhabiting this city there is not one who would hesitate a
moment to sacrifice his life for me and for the welfare of the
country. You can go to sleep peacefully."

She bent over and kissed the little bee on her forehead. Then
she beckoned to the ladies-in-waiting and bade them see to
Maya's rest and comfort.

Maya, stirred to the depths of her being, allowed herself to be
led away. After this, life had nothing lovelier to offer. As in
a dream she heard the loud, clear signals in the distance, saw
the high dignitaries of state assemble around the royal
chambers, heard a dull, far-echoing drone that shook the hive
from roof to foundation.

"The soldiers! Our soldiers!" whispered the ladies-in-waiting at
her side.

The last thing Maya heard in the little room where her
companions put her to bed was the tramp of soldiers marching
past her door and commands shouted in a blithe, resolute,
ringing voice. Into her dreams, echoing as from a great
distance, she carried the ancient song of the soldier-bees:

  Sunlight, sunlight, golden sheen,
    By your glow our lives are lighted;
  Bless our labors, bless our Queen,
    Let us always be united.



The kingdom of the bees was in a whirl of excitement. Not even
in the days of the revolution had the turmoil been so great. The
hive rumbled and roared. Every bee was fired by a holy wrath,
a burning ardor to meet and fight the ancient enemy to the very
last gasp. Yet there was no disorder or confusion. Marvelous the
speed with which the regiments were mobilized, marvelous the way
each soldier knew his duty and fell into his right place and
took up his right work.

It was high time. At the queen's call for volunteers to defend
the entrance, a number of bees offered themselves, and of these
several had been sent out to see if the enemy was approaching.
Two had now returned--whizzing dots--and reported that the
hornets were drawing near.

An awesome hush of expectancy fell upon the hive. Soldiers in
three closed ranks stood lined up at the entrance, proud, pale,
solemn, composed. No one spoke. The silence of death prevailed,
except for the low commands of the officers drawing up the
reserves in the rear. The hive seemed to be fast asleep.
The only stir came from the doorway where about a dozen
wax-generators were at work in feverish silence executing their
orders to narrow the entrance with wax. As by a miracle, two
thick partitions of wax had already gone up, which even the
strongest hornets could not batter down without great loss of
time. The hole had been reduced by almost half.

The queen took up an elevated position inside the hive from
which she was able to survey the battle. Her aides flew
scurrying hither and thither.

The third messenger returned. He sank down exhausted at the
queen's feet.

"I am the last who will return," he shouted with all the
strength he had left. "The others have been killed."

"Where are the hornets?" asked the queen.

"At the lindens!-- Listen, listen," he stammered in mortal
terror, "the air hums with the wings of the giants."

No sound was heard. It must have been the poor fellow's
terrified imagination, he must have thought he was still being
pursued.

"How many are there?" asked the queen sternly. "Answer in a low
voice."

"I counted forty."

Although the queen was startled by the enemy's numbers, she gave
no sign of shock.

In a ringing, confident voice that all could hear, she said:

"Not one of them will see his home again."

Her words, which seemed to sound the enemy's doom, had instant
effect. Men and officers alike felt their courage rise.

But when in the quiet of the morning an ominous whirring was
heard outside the hive, first softly, then louder and louder,
and the entrance darkened, and the whispering voices of the
hornets, the most frightful robbers and murderers in the insect
world, penetrated into the hive, then the faces of the valiant
little bees turned pale as if washed over by a drab light
falling upon their ranks. They gazed at one another with eyes in
which death sat waiting, and those who were ranged at the
entrance knew full well that one moment more and all would be
over with them.

The queen's controlled voice came clear and tranquil from her
place on high:

"Let the robbers enter one by one until I give orders to attack.
Then those at the front throw themselves upon the invaders a
hundred at a time, and the ranks behind cover the entrance. In
that way we shall divide up the enemy's forces. Remember, you at
the front, upon your strength and endurance and bravery depends
the fate of the whole state. Have no fear; in the dusk the enemy
will not see right away how well prepared we are, and he will
enter unsuspecting...."

She broke off. There, thrust through the doorway, was the head
of the first brigand. The feelers played about, groping,
cautious, the pincers opened and closed. It was a blood-curdling
sight. Slowly the huge black-and-gold striped body with its
strong wings crept in after the head. The light falling in from
the outside drew gleams from the warrior's cuirass.

Something like a quiver went through the ranks of the bees, but
the silence remained unbroken.

The hornet withdrew quietly. Outside he could be heard
announcing:

"They're fast asleep. But the entrance is half walled up and
there are no sentinels. I do not know whether to take this as a
good or a bad sign."

"A good sign!" rang out. "Forward!"

At that two giants leapt in through the entrance side by side;
after them, soundlessly, pressed a throng of striped, armed,
gleaming warriors, awful to behold. Eight made their way into
the hive. Still no orders to attack from the queen. Was she dumb
with horror, had her voice failed her?

And the brigands, did they not see in the shadow, to right and
left, the soldiers drawn up in close, glittering ranks ready for
mortal combat...?

Now at last came the order from on high:

"In the name of eternal right, in the name of your queen, to the
defense of the realm!"

At that a droning roar went up. Never before had the city been
shaken by such a battle-cry. It threatened to burst the hive in
two. Where, an instant before, the hornets had been visible
singly, there were now buzzing heaps, thick, dark, rolling
knots. A young officer had scarcely awaited the end of the
queen's words. He wanted to be the first to attack. He was the
first to die. He had stood for some time ready to leap all
a-quiver with eagerness for battle, and at the first sound of
the order he rushed forward right into the clutches of the
foremost brigand. His delicately fine-pointed sting found its
way between the head and upper breast-ring of his opponent; he
heard the hornet give a yell of rage, saw him double up into a
glittering, gold-black ball. Then the bandit's fearful sting
leapt out and pierced between the young officer's breast-rings
right into his heart; and dying the bee felt himself and his
mortally wounded enemy sink under a cloud of storming bees. His
brave death inspired them all with the wild rapture that comes
from utter willingness to die for a noble cause. Fearful was
their attack upon the invaders. The hornets were sore pressed.

But the hornets are an old race of robbers, trained to warfare.
Pillage and murder have long been their gruesome profession.
Though the initial assault of the bees had confused and divided
them, yet the damage was not so great as might have seemed at
first. For the bees' stings did not penetrate their breastplates,
and their strength and gigantic size gave them an advantage of
which they were well aware. Their sharp, buzzing battle-cry
rose high above the battle-cry of the bees. It is a sound that
fills all creatures with horror, even human beings, who dread
this danger signal, and are careful not to enter into conflict
with hornets unprotected.

Those of the assailants who had already penetrated into the hive
quickly realized that they must make their way still deeper
inward if they were not to block up the entrance to their
comrades outside. And so the struggling knots rolled farther and
farther down the dark streets and corridors. How right the queen
had been in her tactics! No sooner was a bit of space at the
entrance cleared than the ranks in the rear leapt forward to its
defense. It was an old strategy, and a dreadful one for the
enemy. When a hornet at the entrance gave signs of exhaustion,
the bees shammed the same, and let him crawl in; but the instant
the one behind showed his head a great swarm of fresh soldiers
dashed up to defend the apparently unprotected entrance, while
the invader who had gone on ahead would find himself, already
wearied, suddenly confronted by glittering ranks of soldier-bees
who had not yet stirred a finger in battle. Generally he
succumbed to their superior numbers at the very first attack.

Now the groans of the wounded and the shrieks of the dying
mingled in wild agony with the fierce battle-cries. The hornets'
stings worked fearful havoc among the bees. The rolling knots
left tracks of dead bodies in their wake. The hornets, whose
retreat had been cut off, realizing that they would never see
the light of day again, fought the fight of despair. Yet,
slowly, one by one, they succumbed. There was one great thing
against them. Though their strength was inexhaustible, not so
the poison of their sting. After a time their sting lost its
virulence, and the wounded bees, knowing they'd recover, fought
in the consciousness of certain victory. To this was added the
grief of the bees for their dead; it gave them the power of
divine wrath.

Gradually the din subsided. The loud calls of the hornets on the
outside met with no response from the invaders within.

"They are all dead," said the leader of the hornets grimly, and
summoned the combatants back from the entrance. Their numbers
had melted down to half.

"We have been betrayed," said the leader. "The bees were
prepared."

The hornets were assembled on the silver-fir. It had
grown lighter, and the red of dawn tinged the tops of the
linden-trees. The birds began to sing. The dew fell. Pale and
quivering with rage of battle, the warriors stood around their
leader, who was waging an awful inward struggle. Should he yield
to prudence or to his lust for pillage? The former prevailed.
There was no use anyway. His whole tribe was in danger of
destruction. Grudgingly, in a shudder of thwarted ambition, he
determined to send a messenger to the bees to sue for the return
of the prisoners.

He chose his cleverest officer and called upon him by name.

A depressed silence instead of an answer. The officer was among
those who had been cut off.

The leader, overcome now by mortal dread lest those who had
entered would never return, quickly chose another officer. The
raging and roaring in the beehive could be heard in the
distance.

"Be quick!" he cried, laying the white petal of a jasmine in the
messenger's hand, "or the human beings will soon come and we
shall be lost. Tell the bees we will go away and leave them in
peace forever if they will deliver up the prisoners."

The messenger rushed off. At the entrance he waved his white
signal and alighted on the flying-board.

The queen-bee was immediately informed that an emissary was
outside who wanted to make terms, and she sent her aide to
parley with him. When he returned with his report she sent back
this reply:

"We will deliver up the dead if you want to take them away.
There are no prisoners. All of your people who invaded our
territory are dead. Your promise never to return we do not
believe. You may come again, whenever you wish. You will fare no
better than you did to-day. And if you want to go on with the
battle we are ready to fight to the last bee."

The leader of the hornets turned pale when this message was
delivered to him. He clenched his fists, he fought with himself.
Only too gladly would he have yielded to the wishes of his
warriors who clamored for revenge. Reason prevailed.

"We _will_ come again," he hissed. "How could this thing have
happened to us? Are we not a more powerful people than the bees?
Every campaign of mine so far has been successful and has only
added to our glory. How can I face the queen after this defeat?"
In a quiver of fury he cried again: "How could this thing have
happened to us? There must be treachery somewhere."

An older hornet known as a friend of the queen's here took up
the word.

"It is true, we _are_ a more powerful race, but the bees are a
unified nation, and unflinchingly loyal to their people and
their state. That is a great source of strength; it makes them
irresistible. Not one of them would turn traitor; each without
thought of self serves the weal of all."

The leader scarcely listened.

"My day is coming," he hissed. "What care I for the wisdom of
these bourgeois! I am a brigand and will die a brigand.-- But to
keep up the battle now would be madness. What good would it do
us if we destroyed the whole hive, and none of us came back
alive?" Turning to the messenger, he cried:

"Give us back our dead. We will withdraw."

A dead silence fell. The messenger flew off.

"We must be prepared for a fresh piece of trickery, though I
don't think the hornets are in a fighting mood at present," said
the queen bee when she heard the hornets' decision. She gave
orders for the rear-guard, wax-generators, and honey-carriers to
remove the dead from the city while two fresh regiments guarded
the entrance.

Her orders were carried out. Over mountains of the dead one
brigand's body after another was dragged to the entrance and
thrown to the ground outside.

In gloomy silence the troop of hornets waited on the silver-fir
and saw the corpses of their fallen warriors drop one by one to
the earth.

The sun arose upon a scene of endless desolation. Twenty-one
slain, who had died a glorious death, made a heap in the grass
under the city of the bees. Not a drop of honey, not a single
prisoner had been taken by the enemy. The hornets picked up
their dead and flew away, the battle was over, the bees had
conquered.

But at what a cost! Everywhere lay fallen bodies, in the streets
and corridors, in the dim places before the brooders and
honey-cupboards. Sad was the work in the hive on that lovely
morning of summer sunshine and scented blossoms. The dead had to
be disposed of, the wounded had to be bandaged and nursed. But
before the hour of noon had struck, the regular tasks were
begun; for the bees neither celebrated their victory nor spent
time mourning their dead. Each bee carried his pride and his
grief locked quietly in his breast and went about his work.



The noise of battle awoke Maya out of a brief sleep. She jumped
up and straightway wanted to dash out to help defend the city,
but soon realized that she was too weak to be of any help.

A group of struggling combatants came rolling toward her. One of
them was a strong young hornet, an officer, Maya judged by his
badge, who was defending himself unaided against an overwhelming
number of bees. The struggling knot drew nearer. To Maya's
horror it left one dead bee after another in its wake. But
numbers finally told against the giant: whole clusters of bees,
ready to die rather than let go, hung to his arms and legs and
feelers, and their stings were beginning to pierce between the
rings of his breast. Maya saw him drop down exhausted. Without
cry or complaint, fighting to the very end, neither suing for
mercy nor reviling his opponents, he went down to his brigand's
death.

The bees left him and hurried back to the entrance to throw
themselves anew into the conflict.

Maya's heart was beating stormily. She slipped over to the
hornet. He lay curled up in the twilight, still breathing. She
counted about twenty stings, most of them in the fore part of
his body, leaving his golden armor quite whole and sound. Seeing
he was still alive, she hurried away to bring water and
honey--to cheer the dying man, she thought. But he shook his
head and waived her off with his hand.

"I _take_ what I want," he said proudly. "I don't care for
gifts."

"Oh," said Maya, "I only thought you might be thirsty."

The young officer smiled at her, then said, not sadly, but with
a strange earnestness:

"I must die."

The little bee could not reply. For the first time in her life
she seemed to comprehend what it meant to have to die; and death
seemed much closer when someone else was about to die than when
her own life had been imperiled in the spider's web.

"If there were only _some_thing I could do," she said, and burst
into tears.

The dying hornet made no answer. He opened his eyes once again
and heaved a deep breath--for the last time. Half an hour later
he was thrown down into the grass outside the hive along with
his dead comrades.

Little Maya never forgot what she had learned from this brief
farewell. She knew now for all time that her enemies were beings
like herself, loving life as she did and having to die a hard
death without succor. She thought of the flower sprite who had
told her of his rebirth when Nature sent forth her blossoms
again in the spring; and she longed to know whether the other
creatures would, like the sprite, come back to the light of life
after they had died the death of the earth.

"I will believe it is so," she said softly.

A messenger now came and summoned her to the queen's presence.
She found the full court assembled in the royal reception room.
Her legs shook, she scarcely dared to raise her eyes before her
monarch and so many dignitaries. A number of the officers of
the queen's staff were missing, and the gathering was unusually
solemn. Yet a gleam of exaltation seemed to light every brow--as
if the consciousness of triumph and new glory won encircled
everyone like an invisible halo.

The queen arose, made her way unattended through the assemblage,
went up to little Maya and took her in her arms.

This Maya had never expected, not this. The measure of her joy
was full to overflowing; she broke down and wept.

The bees were deeply stirred. There was not one among them who
did not share Maya's happiness, who was not deeply grateful for
the little bee's valiant deed.

Maya now had to tell her whole story. Everybody wanted to know
how she had learned of the hornets' plans and how she had
succeeded in breaking out of the awful prison from which no bee
had ever before escaped.

So Maya told of all the remarkable things she had seen and heard,
of Miss Loveydear with the glittering wings, of the grasshopper,
of Thekla the spider, of Puck, and of how splendidly Bobbie had
come to her rescue. When she told of the sprite and the human
beings, it was so quiet in the hall that you could hear the
generators in the back of the hive kneading the wax.

"Ah," said the queen, "who'd have thought the sprites were so
lovely?" She smiled to herself with a look of melancholy and
longing, as people will who long for beauty.

And all the dignitaries smiled the same smile.

"How did the song of the sprite go?" she asked. "Say it again.
I'd like to learn it by heart."

Maya repeated the song of the sprite.

  My soul is that which breathes anew
  From all of loveliness and grace;
  And as it flows from God's own face,
  It flows from his creations, too.

There was silence for a while. The only sound was a restrained
sobbing in the back of the hall--probably someone thinking of a
friend who had been killed.

Maya went on with her story. When she came to the hornets, the
bees' eyes darkened and widened. Each imagined himself in the
situation in which one of their number had been, and quivered,
and drew a deep breath.

"Awful," said the queen, "perfectly awful...."

The dignitaries murmured something to the same effect.

"And so," Maya ended, "I reached home. And I sue for your
Majesty's pardon--a thousand times."

Oh, no one bore the little bee any ill will for having run away
from the hive. You may imagine they did not.

The queen put her arm round Maya's neck.

"You did not forget your home and your people," she said kindly.
"In your heart you were loyal. So we will be loyal to you.
Henceforth you shall stay by my side and help me conduct the
affairs of state. In that way, I think, your experiences, all
the things you have learned, will be made to serve the greatest
good of your people and your country."

Cheers of approval greeted the queen's words.

So ends the story of the adventures of Maya the bee. They say
her work contributed greatly to the good and welfare of the
nation, and she came to be highly respected and loved by her
people. Sometimes on quiet evenings she went for a brief hour's
conversation to Cassandra's peaceful little room, where the
ancient dame lived now on pension honey. There Maya told the
young bees, who listened to her eagerly, stories of the
adventures which we have lived through with her.

PEACOCK PIE

A Book of Rhymes


by

Walter de la Mare




    'He told me his dreams. . .'
                               Isaac Watts




Table of Contents

  UP AND DOWN
       The Horseman
       Up and Down
       Mrs. Earth
       Alas, Alack
       Tired Tim
       Mima
       The Huntsmen
       The Bandog
       I Can't Abear
       The Dunce
       Chicken
       Some One
       Bread and Cherries
       Old Shellover
       Hapless
       The Little Bird
       Cake and Sack
       The Ship of Rio
       Tillie
       Jim Jay
       Miss T.
       The Cupboard
       The Barber's
       Hide and Seek

  BOYS AND GIRLS
       Then
       The Window
       Poor Henry
       Full Moon
       The Bookworm
       The Quartette
       Mistletoe
       The Lost Shoe
       The Truants

  THREE QUEER TALES
       Berries
       Off the Ground
       The Thief at Robin's Castle

  PLACES AND PEOPLE
       A Widow's Weeds
       'Sooeep!'
       Mrs. MacQueen
       The Little Green Orchard
       Poor Miss 7
       Sam
       Andy Battle
       The Old Soldier
       The Picture
       The Little Old Cupid
       King David
       The Old House

  BEASTS
       Unstooping
       All But Blind
       Nicholas Nye
       The Pigs and The Charcoal Burner
       Five Eyes
       Grim
       Tit for Tat
       Summer Evening
       Earth Folk

  WITCHES AND FAIRIES
       At the Keyhole
       The Old Stone House
       The Ruin
       The Ride-by-Nights
       Peak and Puke
       The Changeling
       The Mocking Fairy
       Bewitched
       The Honey Robbers
       Longlegs
       Melmillo

  EARTH AND AIR
       Trees
       Silver
       Nobody Knows
       Wanderers
       Many a Mickle
       Will Ever?

  SONGS
       The Song of the Secret
       The Song of Soldiers
       The Bees' Song
       A Song of Enchantment
       Dream-Song
       The Song of Shadows
       The Song of the Mad prince
       The Song of Finis


  THE HORSEMAN

  I heard a horseman
     Ride over the hill;
  The moon shone clear,
  The night was still;
  His helm was silver,
     And pale was he;
  And the horse he rode
     Was of ivory.


  UP AND DOWN

  Down the Hill of Ludgate,
     Up the Hill of Fleet,
  To and fro and East and West
     With people flows the street;
  Even the King of England
     On Temple Bar must beat
  For leave to ride to Ludgate
     Down the Hill of Fleet.


  MRS. EARTH

  Mrs. Earth makes silver black,
     Mrs. Earth makes iron red
  But Mrs. Earth can not stain gold,
     Nor ruby red.
  Mrs. earth the slenderest bone
     Whitens in her bosom cold,
  But Mrs. Earth can change my dreams
     No more than ruby or gold.
  Mrs. Earth and Mr. Sun
     Can tan my skin, and tire my toes,
  But all that I'm thinking of, ever shall think,
     Why, either knows.


  ALAS, ALACK!

  Ann, Ann!
     Come! Quick as you can!
  There's a fish that talks
     In the frying-pan.
  Out of the fat,
     As clear as glass,
  He put up his mouth
     And moaned 'Alas!'
  Oh, most mournful,
     'Alas, alack!'
  Then turned to his sizzling,
     And sank him back.


  TIRED TIM

  Poor Tired Tim!  It's sad for him.
  He lags the long bright morning through,
  Ever so tired of nothing to do;
  He moons and mopes the livelong day,
  Nothing to think about, nothing to say;
  Up to bed with his candle to creep,
  Too tired to yawn, too tired to sleep:
  Poor Tired Tim!  It's sad for him.


  MIMA

  Jemima is my name,
     But oh, I have another;
  My father always calls me Meg,
     And so do Bob and mother;
  Only my sister, jealous of
     The strands of my bright hair,
  'Jemima - Mima - Mima!'
     Calls, mocking, up the stair.


  THE HUNTSMEN

  Three jolly gentlemen,
     In coats of red,
  Rode their horses
     Up to bed.

  Three jolly gentlemen
     Snored till morn,
  Their horses champing
     The golden corn.

  Three jolly gentlemen,
     At break of day,
  Came clitter-clatter down the stairs
  And galloped away.


  THE BANDOG

  Has anybody seen my Mopser? --
     A comely dog is he,
  With hair of the colour of a Charles the Fifth,
     And teeth like ships at sea,
  His tail it curls straight upwards,
     His ears stand two abreast,
  And he answers to the simple name of Mopser
     When civilly addressed.


  I CAN'T ABEAR

  I can't abear a Butcher,
     I can't abide his meat,
  The ugliest shop of all is his,
     The ugliest in the street;
  Bakers' are warm, cobblers' dark,
     Chemists' burn watery lights;
  But oh, the sawdust butcher's shop,
     That ugliest of sights!


  THE DUNCE

  Why does he still keep ticking?
     Why does his round white face
  Stare at me over the books and ink,
     And mock at my disgrace?
  Why does that thrush call, 'Dunce, dunce, dunce!'?
     Why does that bluebottle buzz?
  Why does the sun so silent shine? --
     And what do I care if it does?


  CHICKEN

  Clapping her platter stood plump Bess,
     And all across the green
  Came scampering in, on wing and claw,
     Chicken fat and lean:
  Dorking, Spaniard, Cochin China,
     Bantams sleek and small,
  Like feathers blown in a great wind,
     They came at Bessie's call.


  SOME ONE

  Some one came knocking
     At my wee, small door;
  Some one came knocking,
     I'm sure - sure - sure;
  I listened, I opened,
     I looked to left and right,
  But naught there was a-stirring
     In the still dark night;
  Only the busy beetle
     Tap-tapping in the wall,
  Only from the forest
     The screech-owl's call,
  Only the cricket whistling
     While the dewdrops fall,
  So I know not who came knocking,
  At all, at all, at all.


  BREAD AND CHERRIES

  'Cherries, ripe cherries!'
     The old woman cried,
  In her snowy white apron,
     And basket beside;
  And the little boys came,
     Eyes shining, cheeks red,
  To buy a bag of cherries,
  To eat with their bread.


  OLD SHELLOVER

  'Come!' said Old Shellover.
  'What?' says Creep.
  'The horny old Gardener's fast asleep;
  The fat cock Thrush
  To his nest has gone;
  And the dew shines bright
  In the rising Moon;
  Old Sallie Worm from her hole doth peep:
  Come!' said Old Shellover.
  'Aye!' said Creep.


  HAPLESS

  Hapless, hapless, I must be
  All the hours of life I see,
  Since my foolish nurse did once
  Bed me on her leggen bones;
  Since my mother did not weel
  To snip my nails with blades of steel.
  Had they laid me on a pillow
  In a cot of water willow,
  Had they bitten finger and thumb,
  Not to such ill hap I had come.


  THE LITTLE BIRD

  My dear Daddie bought a mansion
     For to bring my Mammie to,
  In a hat with a long feather,
     And a trailing gown of blue;
  And a company of fiddlers
     And a rout of maids and men
  Danced the clock round to the morning,
     In a gay house-warming then.
  And when all the guests were gone, and
     All was still as still can be,
  In from the dark ivy hopped a
     Wee small bird: and that was Me.


  CAKE AND SACK

  Old King Caraway
     Supped on cake,
  And a cup of sack
     His thirst to slake;
  Bird in arras
     And hound in hall
  Watched very softly
     Or not at all;
  Fire in the middle,
     Stone all round
  Changed not, heeded not,
     Made no sound;
  All by himself
     At the Table High
  He'd nibble and sip
     While his dreams slipped by;
  And when he had finished,
     He'd nod and say,
  'Cake and sack
     For King Caraway!'


  THE SHIP OF RIO

  There was a ship of Rio
     Sailed out into the blue,
  And nine and ninety monkeys
     Were all her jovial crew.
  From bo'sun to the cabin boy,
     From quarter to caboose,
  There weren't a stitch of calico
     To breech 'em - tight or loose;
  From spar to deck, from deck to keel,
     From barnacle to shroud,
  There weren't one pair of reach-me-downs
     To all that jabbering crowd.
  But wasn't it a gladsome sight,
     When roared the deep sea gales,
  To see them reef her fore and aft
     A-swinging by their tails!
  Oh, wasn't it a gladsome sight,
     When glassy calm did come,
  To see them squatting tailor-wise
     Around a keg of rum!
  Oh, wasn't it a gladsome sight,
     When in she sailed to land,
  To see them all a-scampering skip
     For nuts across the sand!


  TILLIE

  Old Tillie Turveycombe
  Sat to sew,
  Just where a patch of fern did grow;
  There, as she yawned,
  And yawn wide did she,
  Floated some seed
  Down her gull-e-t;
  And look you once,
  And look you twice,
  Poor old Tillie
  Was gone in a trice.
  But oh, when the wind
  Do a-moaning come,
  'Tis poor old Tillie
  Sick for home;
  And oh, when a voice
  In the mist do sigh,
  Old Tillie Turveycombe's
  Floating by.


  JIM JAY

  Do diddle di do,
     Poor Jim Jay
  Got stuck fast
     In Yesterday.
  Squinting he was,
     On Cross-legs bent,
  Never heeding
     The wind was spent.
  Round veered the weathercock,
     The sun drew in -
  And stuck was Jim
     Like a rusty pin...
  We pulled and we pulled
     From seven till twelve,
  Jim, too frightened
     To help himself.
  But all in vain.
     The clock struck one,
  And there was Jim
     A little bit gone.
  At half-past five
     You scarce could see
  A glimpse of his flapping
     Handkerchee.
  And when came noon,
     And we climbed sky-high,
  Jim was a speck
     Slip - slipping by.
  Come to-morrow,
     The neighbours say,
  He'll be past crying for;
     Poor Jim Jay.


  MISS T.

  It's a very odd thing -----
     As odd as can be ---
  That whatever Miss T. eats
     Turns into Miss T.;
  Porridge and apples,
     Mince, muffins and mutton,
  Jam, junket, jumbles ----
     Not a rap, not a button
  It matters; the moment
     They're out of her plate,
  Though shared by Miss Butcher
     And sour Mr. Bate;
  Tiny and cheerful,
     And neat as can be,
  Whatever Miss T. eats
     Turns into Miss T.


  THE CUPBOARD

  I know a little cupboard,
  With a teeny tiny key,
  And there's a jar of Lollypops
        For me, me, me.

  It has a little shelf, my dear,
  As dark as dark can be,
  And there's a dish of Banbury Cakes
        For me, me, me.

  I have a small fat grandmamma,
  With a very slippery knee,
  And she's the Keeper of the Cupboard
        With the key, key, key.

  And I'm very good, my dear,
  As good as good can be,
  There's Branbury Cakes, and Lollypops
        For me, me, me.


  THE BARBER'S

  Gold locks, and black locks,
     Red locks and brown,
  Topknot to love-curl
     The hair wisps down;
  Straight above the clear eyes,
     Rounded round the ears,
  Snip-snap and snick-a-snick,
     Clash the Barber's shears;
  Us, in the looking-glass,
     Footsteps in the street,
  Over, under, to and fro,
     The lean blades meet;
  Bay Rum or Bear's Grease,
     A silver groat to pay -
  Then out a-shin-shan-shining
     In the bright, blue day.


  HIDE AND SEEK

  Hide and seek, says the Wind,
     In the shade of the woods;
  Hide and seek, says the Moon,
     To the hazel buds;
  Hide and seek, says the Cloud,
     Star on to star;
  Hide and seek, says the Wave,
     At the harbour bar;
  Hide and seek, say I,
     To myself, and step
  Out of the dream of Wake
     Into the dream of Sleep.


  BOYS AND GIRLS

  THEN

  Twenty, forty, sixty, eighty
     A hundred years ago,
  All through the night with lantern bright
     The Watch trudged to and fro,
  And little boys tucked snug abed
     Would wake from dreams to hear -
  'Two o' the morning by the clock,
     And the stars a-shining clear!'
  Or, when across the chimney-tops
     Screamed shrill a North-East gale,
  A faint and shaken voice would shout,
     'Three! And a storm of hail!'


  THE WINDOW

  Behind the blinds I sit and watch
  The people passing - passing by;
  And not a single one can see
     My tiny watching eye.

  They cannot see my little room,
  All yellowed with the shaded sun;
  They do not even know I'm here;
     Nor'll guess when I am gone.


  POOR HENRY

  Thick in its glass
     The physic stands,
  Poor Henry lifts
     Distracted hands;
  His round cheek wans
     In the candlelight,
  To smell that smell!
     To see that sight!

  Finger and thumb
     Clinch his small nose,
  A gurgle, a gasp,
     And down it goes;
  Scowls Henry now;
     But mark that cheek,
  Sleek with the bloom
     Of health next week!


  FULL MOON

  One night as Dick lay half asleep,
     Into his drowsy eyes
  A great still light begins to creep
     From out the silent skies.
  It was lovely moon's, for when
     He raised his dreamy head,
  Her surge of silver filled the pane
     And streamed across his bed.
  So, for a while, each gazed at each -
     Dick and the solemn moon -
  Till, climbing slowly on her way,
     She vanished, and was gone.


  THE BOOKWORM

  'I'm tired - Oh, tired of books,' said Jack,
     'I long for meadows green,
  And woods, where shadowy violets
     Nod their cool leaves between;
  I long to see the ploughman stride
     His darkening acres o'er,
  To hear the hoarse sea-waters drive
     Their billows 'gainst the shore;
  I long to watch the sea-mew wheel
     Back to her rock-perched mate;
  Or, where the breathing cows are housed,
     Lean dreaming o'er the gate.
  Something has gone, and ink and print
     Will never bring it back;
  I long for the green fields again,
     I'm tired of books,' said Jack.


  THE QUARTETTE

  Tom sang for joy and Ned sang for joy and old Sam sang for joy;
  All we four boys piped up loud, just like one boy;
  And the ladies that sate with the Squire - their cheeks were all wet,
  For the noise of the voice of us boys, when we sang our Quartette.

  Tom he piped low and Ned he piped low and old Sam he piped low;
  Into a sorrowful fall did our music flow;
  And the ladies that sate with the Squire vowed they'd never forget
  How the eyes of them cried for delight, when we sang our Quartette.


  MISTLETOE

  Sitting under the mistletoe
  (Pale-green, fairy mistletoe),
  One last candle burning low,
  All the sleepy dancers gone,
  Just one candle burning on,
  Shadows lurking everywhere:
  Some one came, and kissed me there.

  Tired I was; my head would go
  Nodding under the mistletoe
  (Pale-green, fairy mistletoe),
  No footsteps came, no voice, but only,
  Just as I sat there, sleepy, lonely,
  Stooped in the still and shadowy air
  Lips unseen - and kissed me there.


  THE LOST SHOE

  Poor little Lucy
     By some mischance,
  Lost her shoe
     As she did dance -
  'Twas not on the stairs,
     Not in the hall;
  Not where they sat
     At supper at all.
  She looked in the garden,
     But there it was not;
  Henhouse, or kennel,
     Or high dovecote.
  Dairy and meadow,
     And wild woods through
  Showed not a trace
     Of Lucy's shoe.
  Bird nor bunny
     Nor glimmering moon
  Breathed a whisper
     Of where 'twas gone.
  It was cried and cried,
     Oyez and Oyez!
  In French, Dutch, Latin,
     And Portuguese.
  Ships the dark seas
     Went plunging through,
  But none brought news
     Of Lucy's shoe;
  And still she patters
     In silk and leather,
  O'er snow, sand, shingle,
     In every weather;
  Spain, and Africa,
     Hindustan,
  Java, China,
     And lamped Japan;
  Plain and desert,
     She hops-hops through,
  Pernambuco
     To gold Peru;
  Mountain and forest,
     And river too,
  All the world over
     For her lost shoe.


  THE TRUANTS

  Ere my heart beats too coldly and faintly
     To remember sad things, yet be gay,
  I would sing a brief song of the world's little children
     Magic hath stolen away.

  The primroses scattered by April,
     The stars of the wide Milky Way,
  Cannot outnumber the hosts of the children
     Magic hath stolen away.

  The buttercup green of the meadows,
     The snow of the blossoming may,
  Lovelier are not than the legions of children
     Magic hath stolen away.

  The waves tossing surf in the moonbeam,
     The albatross lone on the spray,
  Alone know the tears wept in vain for the children
     Magic hath stolen away.

  In vain: for at hush of the evening,
     When the stars twinkle into the grey,
  Seems to echo the far-away calling of children
     Magic hath stolen away.


  THREE QUEER TALES


  BERRIES

  There was an old woman
     Went blackberry picking
  Along the hedges
     From Weep to Wicking. -
  Half a pottle-
     No more she had got,
  When out steps a Fairy
     From her green grot;
  And says, 'Well, Jill,
     Would 'ee pick ee mo?'
  And Jill, she curtseys,
     And looks just so.
  Be off,' says the Fairy,
     'As quick as you can,
  Over the meadows
     To the little green lane
  That dips to the hayfields
     Of Farmer Grimes:
  I've berried those hedges
     A score of times;
  Bushel on bushel
     I'll promise'ee, Jill,
  This side of supper
     If'ee pick with a will.'
  She glints very bright,
     And speaks her fair;
  Then lo, and behold!
     She had faded in air.

  Be sure Old Goodie
     She trots betimes
  Over the meadows
     To Farmer Grimes.
  And never was queen
     With jewelry rich
  As those same hedges
     From twig to ditch;
  Like Dutchmen's coffers,
     Fruit, thorn, and flower -
  They shone like William
     And Mary's bower.
  And be sure Old Goodie
     Went back to Weep,
  So tired with her basket
     She scarce could creep.

  When she comes in the dusk
     To her cottage door,
  There's Towser wagging
     As never before,
  To see his Missus
     So glad to be
  Come from her fruit-picking
     Back to he.
  As soon as next morning
     Dawn was grey,
  The pot on the hob
     Was simmering away;
  And all in a stew
     And a hugger-mugger
  Towser and Jill
     A-boiling of sugar,
  And the dark clear fruit
     That from Faerie came,
  For syrup and jelly
     And blackberry jam.

  Twelve jolly gallipots
     Jill put by;
  And one little teeny one,
     One inch high;
  And that she's hidden
     A good thumb deep,
  Half way over
     From Wicking to Weep.


  OFF THE GROUND

  Three jolly Farmers
  Once bet a pound
  Each dance the others would
  Off the ground.
  Out of their coats
  They slipped right soon,
  And neat and nicesome,
  Put each his shoon.
  One - Two - Three! -
  And away they go,
  Not too fast,
  And not too slow;
  Out from the elm-tree's
  Noonday shadow,
  Into the sun
  And across the meadow.
  Past the schoolroom,
  With knees well bent
  Fingers a-flicking,
  They dancing went.
  Up sides and over,
  And round and round,
  They crossed click-clacking,
  The Parish bound,
  By Tupman's meadow
  They did their mile,
  Tee-t-tum
  On a three-barred stile.
  Then straight through Whipham,
  Downhill to Week,
  Footing it lightsome,
  But not too quick,
  Up fields to Watchet,
  And on through Wye,
  Till seven fine churches
  They'd seen skip by -
  Seven fine churches,
  And five old mills,
  Farms in the valley,
  And sheep on the hills;
  Old Man's Acre
  And Dead Man's Pool
  All left behind,
  As they danced through Wool.
  And Wool gone by,
  Like tops that seem
  To spin in sleep
  They danced in dream;
  Withy - Wellover -
  Wassop-Wo-
  Like an old clock
  Their heels did go.
  A league and a league
  And a league they went,
  And not one weary,
  And not one spent.
  And Io, and behold!
  Past Willow-cum-Leigh
  Stretched with its waters
  The great green sea.
  Says Farmer Bates,
  I puffs and I blows,
  What's under the water,
  Why, no man knows!'
  Says Farmer Giles,
  'My wind comes weak,
  And a good man drownded
  Is far to seek.'
  But Farmer Turvey,
  On twirling toes
  Up's with his gaiters,
  And in he goes:
  Down where the mermaids
  Pluck and play
  On their twangling harps
  In a sea-green day;
  Down where the mermaids,
  Finned and fair,
  Sleek with their combs
  Their yellow hair....
  Bates and Giles-
  On the shingle sat,
  Gazing at Turvey's
  Floating hat.
  But never a ripple
  Nor bubble told
  Where he was supping
  Off plates of gold.
  Never an echo
  Rilled through the sea
  Of the feasting and dancing
  And minstrelsy.
  They called-called-called:
  Came no reply:
  Nought but the ripples'
  Sandy sigh.
  Then glum and silent
  They sat instead,
  Vacantly brooding
  On home and bed,
  Till both together
  Stood up and said.-
  'Us knows not, dreams not,
  Where you be,
  Turvey, unless
  In the deep blue sea;
  But axcusing silver-
  And it comes most willing -
  Here's us two paying
  Our forty shilling;
  For it's sartin sure, Turvey,
  Safe and sound,
  You danced us square, Turvey,
  Off the ground!'


  THE THIEF AT ROBIN'S CASTLE

  There came a Thief one night to Robin's Castle,
  He climbed up into a Tree;
  And sitting with his head among the branches,
  A wondrous Sight did see.

  For there was Robin supping at his table,
  With Candles of pure Wax,
  His Dame and his two beauteous little Children,
  With Velvet on their backs.

  Platters for each there were shin-shining,
  Of Silver many a pound,
  And all of beaten Gold, three brimming Goblets,
  Standing the table round.

  The smell that rose up richly from the Baked Meats
  Came thinning amid the boughs,
  And much that greedy Thief who snuffed the night air-
  His Hunger did arouse.

  He watched them eating, drinking, laughing, talking,
  Busy with finger and spoon,
  While three most cunning Fiddlers, clad in crimson,
  Played them a supper-tune.

  And he waited in the tree-top like a Starling,
  Till the Moon was gotten low;
  When all the windows in the walls were darkened,
  He softly in did go.

  There Robin and his Dame in bed were sleeping,
  And his Children young and fair;
  Only Robin's Hounds from their warm kennels
  Yelped as he climbed the stair.

  All, all were sleeping, page and fiddler,
  Cook, scullion, free from care;
  Only Robin's Stallions from their stables
  Neighed as he climbed the stair.

  A wee wan light the Moon did shed him,
  Hanging above the sea,
  And he counted into his bag (of beaten Silver)
  Platters thirty-three.

  Of Spoons three score; of jolly golden Goblets
  He stowed in four save one,
  And six fine three-branched Cupid Candlesticks,
  Before his work was done.

  Nine bulging bags of Money in a cupboard,
  Two Snuffers, and a Dish
  He found, the last all studded with great Garnets
  And shapen like a Fish.

  Then tiptoe up he stole into a Chamber,
  Where on Tasselled Pillows lay
  Robin and his Daule in dreaming slumbers
  Tired with the summer's day.

  That Thief he mimbled round him in the gloaming,
  Their treasure for to spy,
  Combs, Brooches, Chains, and, Rings, and Pins and Buckles
  All higgledy, Piggle-dy.

  A Watch shaped in the shape of a flat Apple
  In purest crystal set
  He lifted from the hook where it was ticking
  And crammed in his Pochette.

  He heaped the pretty Baubles on the table,
  Trinketsi Knick-knackerie,
  Pearls, Diamonds, Sapphires, Topazes, and Opals-
  All in his bag put he.

  And there in night's pale Gloom was Robin dreaming
  He was hunting the mountain Bear,
  While his Dame in peaceful slumber in no wise heeded
  A greedy Thief was there.

  And that ravenous Thief he climbed up even higher,
  Till into a chamber small
  He crept where lay poor Robin's beauteous Children,
  Lovelier in sleep withal.

  Oh, fairer was their Hair than Gold of Goblet,
  'Yond Silver their Cheeks did shine,
  And their little hands that lay upon the linen
  Made that Thief's hard heart to pine.

  But though a moment there his hard heart faltered,
  Eftsoones be took them twain,
  And slipped them into his Bag with all his Plunder,
  And soft stole down again.

  Spoon, Platter, Goblet, Ducats, Dishes, Trinkets,
  And those two Children dear,
  A-quaking in the clinking and the clanking,
  And half bemused with fear,

  He carried down the stairs into the Courtyard,
  But there he made no stay,
  He just tied up his Garters, took a deep breath,
  And ran like the wind away.

  Past Forest, River, Mountain, River, Forest-
  He coursed the whole night through,
  Till morning found him come into a Country,
  Where none his bad face knew.

  Past Mountain, River, Forest, River, Mountain-
  That Thief's lean shanks sped on,
  Till Evening found him knocking at a Dark House,
  His breath now well-nigh gone.

  There came a little maid and asked his Business;
  A Cobbler dwelt within;
  And though she much misliked the Bag he carried,
  She led the Bad Man in.

  He bargained with the Cobbler for a lodging
  And soft laid down his Sack-
  In the Dead of Night, with none to spy or listen-
  From off his weary back.

  And he taught the little Chicks to call him Father,
  And he sold his stolen Pelf,
  And bought a Palace, Horses, Slaves, and Peacocks
  To ease his wicked self.

  And though the Children never really loved him,
  He was rich past all belief;
  While Robin and his Dame o'er Delf and Pewter
  Spent all their Days in Grief.


  PLACES AND PEOPLE


  A WIDOW'S WEEDS

  A poor old Widow in her weeds
  Sowed her garden with wild-flower seeds;
  Not too shallow, and not too deep,
  And down came April -- drip -- drip -- drip.
  Up shone May, like gold, and soon
  Green as an arbour grew leafy June.
  And now all summer she sits and sews
  Where willow herb, comfrey, bugloss blows,
  Teasle and pansy, meadowsweet,
  Campion, toadflax, and rough hawksbit;
  Brown bee orchis, and Peals of Bells;
  Clover, burnet, and thyme she smells;
  Like Oberon's meadows her garden is
  Drowsy from dawn to dusk with bees.
  Weeps she never, but sometimes sighs,
  And peeps at her garden with bright brown eyes;
  And all she has is all she needs --
  A poor Old Widow in her weeds.


  'SOOEEP!'

  Black as a chimney is his face,
     And ivory white his teeth,
  And in his brass-bound cart he rides,
     The chestnut blooms beneath.

  'Sooeep, Sooeep!' he cries, and brightly peers
     This way and that, to see
  With his two light-blue shining eyes
     What custom there may be.

  And once inside the house, he'll squat,
     And drive his rods on high,
  Till twirls his sudden sooty brush
     Against the morning sky.

  Then, 'mid his bulging bags of soot,
     With half the world asleep,
  His small cart wheels him off again,
     Still hoarsely bawling, 'Sooeep!'


  MRS. MACQUEEN (OR THE LOLLIE-SHOP)

  With glass like a bull's-eye,
  And shutters of green,
  Down on the cobbles
  Lives Mrs. MacQueen,

  At six she rises;
  At nine you see
  Her candle shine out
  In the linden tree:

  And at half-past nine
  Not a sound is nigh
  But the bright moon's creeping
  Across the sky;

  Or a far dog baying;
  Or a twittering bird
  In its drowsy nest,
  In the darkness stirred;

  Or like the roar
  Of a distant sea
  A long-drawn S-s-sh
  In the linden tree.


  THE LITTLE GREEN ORCHARD

  Some one is always sitting there,
           In the little green orchard;
     Even when the sun is high
     In noon's unclouded sky,
     And faintly droning goes
     The bee from rose to rose,
  Some one in shadow is sitting there
           In the little green orchard.

  Yes, when the twilight's falling softly
           In the little green orchard;
     When the grey dew distills
     And every flower-cup fills;
     When the last blackbird says,
     'What - what!' and goes her way - ssh!
  I have heard voices calling softly
           In the little green orchard

  Not that I am afraid of being there,
          In the little green orchard;
     Why, when the moon's been bright,
     Shedding her lonesome light,
     And moths like ghosties come,
     And the horned snail leaves home:
  I've sat there, whispering and listening there,
           In the little green orchard.

  Only it's strange to be feeling there,
           In the little green orchard;
     Whether you paint or draw,
     Dig, hammer, chop or saw;
     When you are most alone,
     All but the silence gone...
  Some one is watching and waiting there,
           In the little green orchard.


  POOR 'MISS 7'

  Lone and alone she lies,
     Poor Miss 7,
  Five steep flights from the earth,
     And one from heaven;
  Dark hair and dark brown eyes, -
  Not to be sad she tries,
  Still - still it's lonely lies
     Poor Miss 7.

  One day-long watch hath she,
     Poor Miss 7,
  Not in some orchard sweet
     In April Devon -
  Just four blank walls to see,
  And dark come shadowily,
  No moon, no stars, ah me!
     Poor Miss 7.

  And then to wake again,
     Poor Miss 7,
  To the cold night, to have
     Sour physic given;
  Out of some dream of pain,
  Then strive long hours in vain
  Deep dreamless sleep to gain:
     Poor Miss 7.

  Yet memory softly sings
     Poor Miss 7
  Songs full of love and peace
     And gladness even;
  Clear flowers and tiny wings,
  All tender, lovely things,
  Hope to her bosom brings -
     Happy Miss 7.


  SAM

  When Sam goes back in memory,
  It is to where the sea
  Breaks on the shingle, emerald-green,
  In white foam, endlessly;
  He says - with small brown eye on mine-
  'I used to keep awake,
  And lean from my window in the moon,
  Watching those billows break.
  And half a million tiny hands,
  And eyes, like sparks of frost,
  Would dance and come tumbling into the moon,
  On every breaker tossed.
  And all across from star to star,
  I've seen the watery sea,
  With not a single ship in sight,
  Just ocean there, and me;
  And heard my father snore. And once,
  As sure as I'm alive,
  Out of those wallowing, moon-flecked waves
  I saw a mermaid dive;
  Head and shoulders above the wave,
  Plain as I now see you,
  Combing her hair, now back, now front,
  Her two eyes peeping through;
  Calling me, 'Sam!' -quietlike- 'Sam!'...
  But me .... I never went,
  Making believe I kind of thought
  'Twas some one else she meant....
   Wonderful lovely there she sat,
  Singing the night away,
  All in the solitudinous sea
  Of that there lonely bay.

  P'raps,' and he'd smooth his hairless mouth,
  'P'raps, if 'twere now, my son,
  Praps, if I heard a voice say, 'Sam!'...
  Morning would find we gone.'


  ANDY BATTLE

  Once and there was a young sailor, yeo ho!
  And he sailed out over the say
  For the isles where pink coral and palm branches blow,
  And the fire-flies turn night into day,
  Yeo ho!
  And the fire-flies turn night into day.

  But the Dolphin went down in a tempest, yeo ho!
  And with three forsook sailors ashore,
  The portingales took him wh'ere sugar-canes grow,
  Their slave for to be evermore,
  Yeo ho!
  Their slave for to be evermore.

  With his musket for mother and brother, yeo ho!
   He warred with the Cannibals drear,
  in forests where panthers pad soft to and fro,
  And the Pongo shakes noonday with fear,
  Yeo ho!
  And the Pongo shakes noonday with fear.

  Now lean with long travail, all wasted with woe,
  With a monkey for messmate and friend,
  He sits 'neath the Cross in the cankering snow,
  And waites for his sorrowful end,
  Yeo ho!
  And waits for his sorrowful end.


  THE OLD SOLDIER

  There came an Old Soldier to my door,
  Asked a crust, and asked no more;
  The wars had thinned him very bare,
  Fighting and marching everywhere,
  With a Fol rol dol rol di do.

  With nose stuck out, and cheek sunk in,
  A bristling beard upon his chin -
  Powder and bullets and wounds and drums
  Had come to that Soldier as suchlike comes -
  With a Fol rol dol rol di do.

  'Twas sweet and fresh with buds of May,
  Flowers springing from every spray;
  And when he had supped the Old Soldier trolled
  The song of youth that never grows old,
  Called Fol rol dol rol di do.

  Most of him rags, and all of him lean,
  And the belt round his belly drawn tightsome in
  He lifted his peaked old grizzled head,
  And these were the very same words he said-
  A Fol-rol-dol-rol-di-do.


  THE PICTURE

     Here is a sea-legged sailor,
     Come to this tottering Inn,
  Just when the bronze on its signboard is fading,
     And the black shades of evening begin.

     With his head on thick paws sleeps a sheep-dog,
     There stoops the Shepherd, and see,
  All follow-my-leader the ducks waddle homeward,
     Under the sycamore tree.

     Very brown is the face of the Sailor,
     His bundle is crimson, and green
  Are the thick leafy boughs that hang dense o'er the Tavern,
     And blue the far meadows between.

     But the Crust, Ale and Cheese of the Sailor,
     His Mug and his platter of Delf,
  And the crescent to light home the Shepherd and Sheep-dog
     The painter has kept to himself.


  THE LITTLE OLD CUPID

  'Twas a very small garden;
  The paths were of stone,
  Scattered with leaves,
  With moss overgrown;
  And a little old Cupid
  Stood under a tree,
  With a small broken bow
  He stood aiming at me.

  The dog-rose in briars
  Hung over the weeds,
  The air was aflock
  With the floating of seed,
  And a little old Cupid
  Stood under a tree,
  With a small broken bow
  He stood aiming at me.

  The dovecote was tumbling,
  The fountain dry,
  A wind in the orchard
  Went whispering by;
  And a little old Cupid
  Stood under a tree,
  With a small broken bow
  He stood aiming at me.


  KING DAVID

  King David was a sorrowful man:
  No cause for his sorrow had he;
  And he called for the music of a hundred harps,
  To ease his melancholy.

  They played till they all fell silent:
  Played-and play sweet did they;
  But the sorrow that haunted the heart of King David
  They could not charm away.

  He rose; and in his garden
  Walked by the moon alone,
  A nightingale hidden in a cypress-tree
  Jargoned on and on.

  King David lifted his sad eyes
  Into the dark-boughed tree-
  ''Tell me, thou little bird that singest,
  Who taught my grief to thee?'

  But the bird in no wise heeded
  And the king in the cool of the moon
  Hearkened to the nightingale's sorrowfulness,
  Till all his own was gone.


  THE OLD HOUSE

  A very, very old house I know-
  And ever so many people go,
  Past the small lodge, forlorn and still,
  Under the heavy branches, till
  Comes the blank wall, and there's the door.
  Go in they do; come out no more.
  No voice says aught; no spark of light
  Across that threshold cheers the sight;
  Only the evening star on high
  Less lonely makes a lonely sky,
  As, one by one, the people go
  Into that very old house I know.


  BEASTS

  UNSTOOPING

  Low on his fours the Lion
  Treads with the surly Bear',
  But Men straight upward from the dust
  Walk with their heads in air;
  The free sweet winds of heaven,
  The sunlight from on high
  Beat on their clear bright cheeks and brows
  As they go striding by;
  The doors of all their houses
  They arch so they may go,
  Uplifted o'er the four-foot beasts,
  Unstooping, to and fro.


  ALL BUT BLIND

  All but blind
     In his cambered hole
  Gropes for worms
     The four-clawed Mole.

  All but blind
     In the evening sky
  The hooded Bat
     Twirls softly by.

  All but blind
     In the burning day
  The Barn-Owl blunders
     On her way.

  And blind as are
     These three to me,
  So blind to someone
     I must be.


  NICHOLAS NYE

  Thistle and darnell and dock grew there,
     And a bush, in the corner, of may,
  On the orchard wall I used to sprawl
     In the blazing heat of the day;
  Half asleep and half awake,
     While the birds went twittering by,
  And nobody there my lone to share
     But Nicholas Nye.

  Nicholas Nye was lean and gray,
     Lame of leg and old,
  More than a score of donkey's years
     He had been since he was foaled;
  He munched the thistles, purple and spiked,
     Would sometimes stoop and sigh,
  And turn to his head, as if he said,
     "Poor Nicholas Nye!"

  Alone with his shadow he'd drowse in the meadow,
     Lazily swinging his tail,
  At break of day he used to bray,--
     Not much too hearty and hale;
  But a wonderful gumption was under his skin,
     And a clean calm light in his eye,
  And once in a while; he'd smile:--
     Would Nicholas Nye.

  Seem to be smiling at me, he would,
     From his bush in the corner, of may,--
  Bony and ownerless, widowed and worn,
     Knobble-kneed, lonely and gray;
  And over the grass would seem to pass
     'Neath the deep dark blue of the sky,
  Something much better than words between me
     And Nicholas Nye.

  But dusk would come in the apple boughs,
     The green of the glow-worm shine,
  The birds in nest would crouch to rest,
     And home I'd trudge to mine;
  And there, in the moonlight, dark with dew,
     Asking not wherefore nor why,
  Would brood like a ghost, and as still as a post,
     Old Nicholas Nye.


  THE PIGS AND THE CHARCOAL - BURNER

  The old Pig said to the little pigs,
     'In the forest is truffles and mast,
  Follow me then, all ye little pigs,
     Follow me fast!'

  The Charcoal-burner sat in the shade
     With his chin on his thumb,
  And saw the big Pig and the little pigs,
     Chuffling come.

  He watched 'neath a green and giant bough,
     And the pigs in the ground
  Made a wonderful grizzling and gruzzling
     And a greedy sound.

  And when, full-fed they were gone, and Night
     Walked her starry ways,
  He stared with his cheeks in his hands
     At his sullen blaze.


  FIVE EYES

  In Hans' old Mill his three black cats
  Watch the bins for the thieving rats.
  Whisker and claw, they crouch in the night,
  Their five eyes smouldering green and bright:
  Squeaks from the flour sacks, squeaks from where
  The cold wind stirs on the empty stair,
  Squeaking and scampering, everywhere.
  Then down they pounce, now in, now out,
  At whisking tail, and sniffing snout;
  While lean old Hans he snores away
  Till peep of light at break of day;
  Then up he climbs to his creaking mill,
  Out come his cats all grey with meal --
  Jekkel, and Jessup, and one-eyed Jill.


  GRIM

  Beside the blaze of forty fires
     Giant Grim doth sit,
  Roasting a thick-woolled mountain sheep
     Upon an iron spit.
  Above him wheels the winter sky,
     Beneath him, fathoms deep,
  Lies hidden in the valley mists
     A village fast asleep ---
  Save for one restive hungry dog
     That, snuffing towards the height,
  Smells Grim's broiled supper-meat, and spies
  His watch-fire twinkling bright.


  TIT FOR TAT

  Have you been catching of fish, Tom Noddy?
     Have you snared a weeping hare?
  Have you whistled, 'No Nunny,'and gunned a poor
        bunny,
     Or a blinded bird of the air?

  Have you trod like a murderer through the green
        woods,
     Through the dewy deep dingles and glooms,
  While every small creature screamed shrill to Dame
        Nature,
     'He comes --and he comes!'?

  Wonder I very much do, Tom Noddy,
     If ever, when you are a-roam,
  An Ogre from space will stoop a lean face
     And lug you home:

  Lug you home over his fence, Tom Noddy,
     Of thorn-sticks nine yards high,
  With your bent knees strung round his old iron gun
     And your head dan-dangling by:

  And hang you up stiff on a hook, Tom Noddy,
     From a stone-cold pantry shelf,
  Whence your eyes will glare in an empty stare,
     Till you're cooked yourself!


  SUMMER EVENING

  The sandy cat by the Farmer's chair
  Mews at his knee for dainty fare;
  Old Rover in his moss-greened house
  Mumbles a bone, and barks at a mouse
  In the dewy fields the cattle lie
  Chewing the cud 'neath a fading sky
  Dobbin at manger pulls his hay:
  Gone is another summer's day.


  EARTH FOLK

  The cat she walks on padded claws,
  The wolf on the hills lays stealthy paws,
  Feathered birds in the rain-sweet sky
  At their ease in the air, flit low, flit high.

  The oak's blind, tender roots pierce deep,
  His green crest towers, dimmed in sleep,
  Under the stars whose thrones are set
  Where never prince hath journeyed yet.


  WITCHES AND FAIRIES


  AT THE KEYHOLE

  'Grill me some bones,' said the Cobbler,
     'Some bones, my pretty Sue;
  I'm tired of my lonesome with heels and soles,
  Springsides and uppers too;
  A mouse in the wainscot is nibbling;
  A wind in the keyhole drones;
  And a sheet webbed over my candle, Susie, ---
     Grill me some bones!'

  'Grill me some bones,' said the Cobbler,
     I sat at my tic-tac-to;
  And a footstep came to my door and stopped,
  And a hand groped to and fro;
  And I peered up over my boot and last;
  And my feet went cold as stones:
  I saw an eye at the keyhole, Susie! ---
     Grill me some bones!'

  THE OLD STONE HOUSE

  Nothing on the grey roof, nothing on the brown,
  Only a little greening where the rain drips down;
  Nobody at the window, nobody at the door,
  Only a little hollow which a foot once wore;
  But still I tread on tiptoe, still tiptoe on I go,
  Past nettles, porch, and weedy well, for oh, I know
  A friendless face is peering, and a still clear eye
  Peeps closely through the casement
        as my step goes by.

  THE RUIN

  When the last colours of the day
  Have from their burning ebbed away,
  About that ruin, cold and lone,
  The cricket shrills from stone to stone;
  And scattering o'er its darkened green,
  Bands of the fairies may be seen,
  Chattering like grasshoppers, their feet
  Dancing a thistledown dance round it:
  While the great gold of the mild moon
  Tinges their tiny acorn shoon.


  THE RIDE-BY-NIGHTS

  Up on their brooms the Witches stream,
  Crooked and black in the crescent's gleam;
  One foot high, and one foot low,
  Bearded, cloaked, and cowled, they go,
  'Neath Charlie's Wain they twitter and tweet,
  And away they swarm 'neath the Dragon's feet,
  With a whoop and a flutter they swing and sway,
  And surge pell-mell down the Milky Way.
  Betwixt the legs of the glittering Chair
  They hover and squeak in the empty air.
  Then round they swoop past the glimmering Lion
  To where Sirius barks behind huge Orion;
  Up, then, and over to wheel amain,
  Under the silver, and home again.



  PEAK AND PUKE

  From his cradle in the glamourie
  They have stolen my wee brother,
  Housed a changeling in his swaddlings
  For to fret my own poor mother.
  Pules it in the candle light
  Wi' a cheek so lean and white,
  Chinkling up its eyne so wee
  Wailing shrill at her an' me.
  It we'll neither rock nor tend
  Till the Silent Silent send,
  Lapping in their awesome arms
  Him they stole with spells and charms,
  Till they take this changeling creature
  Back to its own fairy nature --
  Cry! Cry! As long as may be,
  Ye shall ne'er be woman's baby!


  THE CHANGELING

  'Ahoy, and ahoy!'
     'Twixt mocking and merry --
  'Ahoy and ahoy, there,
     Young man of the ferry!'

  She stood on the steps
     In the watery gloom ---
  That Changeling --'Ahoy, there!'
     She called him to come.
  He came on the green wave,
     He came on the grey,
  Where stooped that sweet lady
     That still summer's day.
  He fell in a dream
     Of her beautiful face,
  As she sat on the thwart
     And smiled in her place.

  No echo his oar woke,
     Float silent did they,
  Past low-grazing cattle
     In the sweet of the hay.
  And still in a dream
     At her beauty sat he,
  Drifting stern foremost
     Down -- down to the sea.

  Come you, then: call,
     When the twilight apace
  Brings shadow to brood
     On the loveliest face;
  You shall hear o'er the water
     Ring faint in the grey ---
  'Ahoy, and ahoy, there!'
     And tremble away;
  'Ahoy, and ahoy!...'
     And tremble away.


  THE MOCKING FAIRY

  'Won't you look out of your window, Mrs. Gill?'
     Quoth the Fairy, niddling, nodding in the garden;
  'Can't you look out of your window, Mrs. Gill?'
     Quoth the Fairy, laughing softly in the garden;
  But the air was still, the cherry boughs were still,
  And the ivy-tod 'neath the empty sill,
  And never from her window looked out Mrs. Gill
     On the Fairy shrilly mocking in the garden.

  'What have they done with you, you poor Mrs. Gill?'
     Quoth the Fairy brightly glancing in the garden;
  'Where have they hidden you, you poor old Mrs. Gill?'
     Quoth the Fairy dancing lightly in the garden;

  But night's faint veil now wrapped the hill,
     Stark 'neath the stars stood the dead-still Mill,
  And out of her cold cottage never answered Mrs. Gill
     The Fairy mimbling, mambling in the garden.


  BEWITCHED

  I have heard a lady this night,
     Lissom and jimp and slim,
  Calling me -- calling me over the heather,
     'Neath the beech boughs dusk and dim.

  I have followed a lady this night,
     Followed her far and lone,
  Fox and adder and weasel know
     The ways that we have gone.

  I sit at my supper 'mid honest faces,
     And crumble my crust and say
  Naught in the long-drawn drawl of the voices
     Talking the hours away.

  I'll go to my chamber under the gable,
     And the moon will lift her light
  In at my lattice from over the moorland
     Hollow and still and bright.

  And I know she will shine on a lady of witchcraft,
     Gladness and grief to see,
  Who has taken my heart with her nimble fingers,
     Calls in my dreams to me;

  Who has led me a dance by dell and dingle
     My human soul to win,
  Made me a changeling to my own, own mother,
     A stranger to my kin.


  THE HONEY ROBBERS

  There were two Fairies, Gimmul and Mel,
  Loved Earth Man's honey passing well;
  Oft at the hives of his tame bees
  They would their sugary thirst appease.

  When dusk began to darken to night,
  They would hie along in the fading light,
  With elf-locked hair and scarlet lips,
  And small stone knives to slit the skeps,
  So softly not a bee inside
  Should hear the woven straw divide:
  And then with sly and greedy thumbs
  Would rifle the sweet honeycombs.

  And drowsily drone to drone would say,
  'A cold, cold wind blows in this way';
  And the great Queen would turn her head
  From face to face, astonished,
  And, though her maids with comb and brush
  Would comb and soothe and whisper, 'Hush!'
  About the hive would shrilly go
  A keening -- keening, to and fro;
  At which those robbers 'neath the trees
  Would taunt and mock the honey-bees,
  And through their sticky teeth would buzz
  Just as an angry hornet does.

  And when this Gimmul and this Mel
  Had munched and sucked and swilled their fill,
  Or ever Man's first cock could crow
  Back to their Faerie Mounds they'd go;
  Edging across the twilight air,
  Thieves of a guise remotely fair.


  LONGLEGS

  Longlegs -- he yelled 'Coo-ee!'
     And all across the combe
  Shrill and shrill it rang -- rang through
     The clear green gloom.
  Fairies there were a-spinning,
     And a white tree-maid
  Lifted her eyes, and listened
     In her rain-sweet glade.
  Bunnie to bunnie stamped; old Wat
     Chin-deep in bracken sate;
  A throstle piped, 'I'm by, I'm by!'
     Clear to his timid mate.
  And there was Longlegs, straddling,
     And hearkening was he,
  To distant Echo thrilling back
     A thin 'Coo-ee!'


  MELMILLO

  Three and thirty birds there stood
  In an elder in a wood;
  Called Melmillo -- flew off three,
  Leaving thirty in the tree;
  Called Melmillo -- nine now gone,
  And the boughs held twenty-one;
  Called Melmillo -- and eighteen
  Left but three to nod and preen;
  Called Melmillo -- three -- two -- one
  Now of birds were feathers none.

  Then stole Melmillo in
  To that wood all dusk and green,
  And with lean long palms outspread
  Softly a strange dance did tread;
  Not a note of music she
  Had for echoing company;
  All the birds were flown to rest
  In the hollow of her breast;
  In the wood -- thorn, elder, willow --
  Danced alone -- lone danced Melmillo.


  EARTH AND AIR


  TREES

  Of all the trees in England,
     Her sweet three corners in,
  Only the Ash, the bonnie Ash
     Burns fierce while it is green.

  Of all the trees in England,
     From sea to sea again,
  The Willow loveliest stoops her boughs
     Beneath the driving rain.

  Of all the trees in England,
     Past frankincense and myrrh,
  There's none for smell, of bloom and smoke,
     Like Lime and Juniper.

  Of all the trees in England,
     Oak, Elder, Elm and Thorn,
  The Yew alone burns lamps of peace
     For them that lie forlorn.


  SILVER

  Slowly, silently, now the moon
  Walks the night in her silver shoon:
  This way, and that, she peers and sees
  Silver fruit upon silver trees;
  One by one the casements catch
  Her beams beneath the silvery thatch;
  Couched in his kennel, like a log,
  With paws of silver sleeps the dog
  From their shadowy cote the white breasts peep
  Of doves in a silver-feathered sleep;
  A harvest mouse goes scampering by,
  With silver claws and silver eye;
  And moveless fish in the water gleam
  By silver reeds in a silver stream.


  NOBODY KNOWS

  Often I've heard the Wind sigh
     By the ivied orchard wall,
  Over the leaves in the dark night,
     Breathe a sighing call,
  And faint away in the silence
     While I, in my bed,
  Wondered, 'twixt dreaming and waking,
        What it said.

  Nobody knows what the Wind is,
     Under the height of the sky,
  Where the hosts of the stars keep far away house
     And its wave sweeps by --
  Just a great wave of the air,
     Tossing the leaves in its sea,
  And foaming under the eaves of the roof
        That covers me.

  And so we live under deep water,
     All of us, beasts and men,
  And our bodies are buried down under the sand,
     When we go again;
  And leave, like the fishes, our shells,
     And float on the Wind and away,
  To where, o'er the marvellous tides of the air,
     Burns day.


  WANDERERS

  Wide are the meadows of night,
  And daisies are shining there,
  Tossing their lovely dews,
  Lustrous and fair;
  And through these sweet fields go,
  Wanderers amid the stars --
  Venus, Mercury, Uranus, Neptune,
  Saturn, Jupiter, Mars.

  'Tired in their silver, they move,
  And circling, whisper and say,
  Fair are the blossoming meads of delight
  Through which we stray.


  MANY A MICKLE
  A little sound ---
  Only a little, a little ---
  The breath in a reed,
  A trembling fiddle;
  A trumpet's ring,
  The shuddering drum;
  So all the glory, bravery, hush
  Of music come.

  A little sound ---
  Only a stir and a sigh
  Of each green leaf
  Its fluttering neighbor by;
  Oak on to oak,
  The wide dark forest through ---
  So o'er the watery wheeling world
  The night winds go.

  A little sound,
  Only a little, a little ---
  The thin high drone
  Of the simmering kettle,
  The gathering frost,
  The click of needle and thread;
  Mother, the fading wall, the dream,
  The drowsy bed.


  WILL EVER?

  Will he ever be weary of wandering,
     The flaming sun?
  Ever weary of waning in lovelight,
     The white still moon?
  Will ever a shepherd come
     With a crook of simple gold,
  And lead all the little stars
     Like lambs to the fold?

  Will ever the Wanderer sail
     From over the sea,
  Up the river of water,
     To the stones to me?
  Will he take us all into his ship,
     Dreaming, and waft us far,
  To where in the clouds of the West
     The Islands are?


  SONGS


  THE SONG OF THE SECRET

  Where is beauty?
        Gone, gone:
  The cold winds have taken it
     With their faint moan;
  The white stars have shaken it,
     Trembling down,
  Into the pathless deeps of the sea.
        Gone, gone
     Is beauty from me.

  The clear naked flower
     Is faded and dead;
  The green-leafed willow,
     Drooping her head,
  Whispers low to the shade
     Of her boughs in the stream,
        Sighing a beauty,
        Secret as dream.


  THE SONG OF THE SOLDIERS

  As I sat musing by the frozen dyke,
  There was a man marching with a bright steel pike,
  Marching in the dayshine like a ghost came he,
  And behind me was the moaning and the murmur
        Of the sea.

  As I sat musing, 'twas not one but ten ---
  Rank on rank of ghostly soldiers marching o'er the fen,
  Marching in the misty air they showed in dreams to me,
  And behind me was the shouting and the shattering
        of the sea.

  As I sat musing, 'twas a host in dark array,
  With their horses and their cannon wheeling onward
        to the fray,
  Moving like a shadow to the fate the brave must dree,
  And behind me roared the drums, rang the trumpets
        of the sea.


  THE BEES' SONG

  Thousandz of thornz there be
  On the Rozez where gozez
  The Zebra of Zee:
  Sleek, striped, and hairy,
  The steed of the Fairy
  Princess of Zee.

  Heavy with blossomz be
  The Rozez that growzez
  In the thickets of Zee.
  Where grazez the Zebra,
  Marked Abracadeeebra,
  Of the Princess of Zee.

  And he nozez that poziez
  Of the Rozez that grozez
  So luvez'm and free,
  With an eye, dark and wary,
  In search of a Fairy,
  Whose Rozez he knowzez
  Were not honeyed for he,
  But to breathe a sweet incense
  To solace the Princess
  Of far-away Zee.


  SONG OF ENCHANTMENT

  A Song of Enchantment I sang me there,
  In a green --green wood, by waters fair,
  Just as the words came up to me
  I sang it under the wildwood tree.

  Widdershins turned I, singing it low,
  Watching the wild birds come and go;
  No cloud in the deep dark blue to be seen
  Under the thick-thatched branches green.

  Twilight came; silence came;
  The planet of Evening's silver flame;
  By darkening paths I wandered through
  Thickets trembling with drops of dew.

  But the music is lost and the words are gone
  Of the song I sang as I sat alone,
  Ages and ages have fallen on me--
  On the wood and the pool and the elder tree.



  DREAM SONG

        Sunlight, moonlight,
        Twilight, starlight-
  Gloaming at the close of day,
        And an owl calling,
        Cool dews falling
  In a wood of oak and may.

        Lantern-light, taper-light,
        Torchlight, no-light:
  Darkness at the shut of day,
        And lions roaring,
        Their wrath pouring
  In wild waste places far away.

        Elf-light, bat-light,
        Touchwood-light and toad-light,
  And the sea a shimmering gloom of grey,
        And a small face smiling
        In a dream's beguiling
  In a world of wonders far away.


  THE SONG OF SHADOWS

  Sweep thy faint Strings, Musician,
     With thy long lean hand;
  Downward the starry tapers burn,
     Sinks soft the waning sand;
  The old hound whimpers couched in sleep,
     The embers smoulder low;
  Across the walls the shadows
        Come, and go.

  Sweep softly thy strings, Musician,
     The minutes mount to hours;
  Frost on the windless casement weaves
     A labyrinth of flowers;
  Ghosts linger in the darkening air,
     Hearken at the open door;
  Music hath called them, dreaming,
        Home once more.


  THE SONG OF THE MAD PRINCE

  Who said, 'Peacock Pie?'
     The old King to the sparrow:
  Who said, 'Crops are ripe?'
     Rust to the harrow:
  Who said, 'Where sleeps she now?'
     Where rests she now her head,
  Bathed in eve's loveliness'? ---
     That's what I said.

  Who said, 'Ay, mum's the word'?
     Sexton to willow:
  Who said, 'Green duck for dreams,
     Moss for a pillow'?

  Who said, 'All Time's delight
     Hath she for narrow bed;
  Life's troubled bubble broken'? ---
     That's what I said.


  THE SONG OF FINIS

  AT the edge of All the Ages
     A Knight sate on his steed,
  His armor red and thin with rust
     His soul from sorrow freed;
  And he lifted up his visor
     From a face of skin and bone,
  And his horse turned head and whinnied
     As the twain stood there alone.

  No bird above that steep of time
     Sang of a livelong quest;
  No wind breathed,
        Rest:
  "Lone for an end!" cried Knight to steed,
     Loosed an eager rein--
  Charged with his challenge into space:
     And quiet did quiet remain.





CONTENTS


  CHAPTER                                                      PAGE
     I.--THE TALK IN AN APPLE TREE                               17
    II.--JASPER'S IDEA TAKES ROOT                                25
   III.--AS THE CLOCK IN THE TOWER BOOMED SIX                    33
    IV.--SIGNS OF TROUBLE                                        41
     V.--THE MOTORCYCLE SQUAD                                    49
    VI.--GETTING IN A RUT                                        57
   VII.--IN HOT PURSUIT                                          65
  VIII.--TWENTY-SEVEN MILES FROM HICKORY RIDGE AND HOME          73
    IX.--NEARING THE CRISIS                                      81
     X.--FOUND AT LAST                                           89
    XI.--THE HOWL OF THE WOLF SIGNAL                             97
   XII.--THE AMBUSH                                             105
  XIII.--FRIENDS IN TIME OF NEED                                113
   XIV.--HOW THE PLOT FAILED                                    121
    XV.--VICTORY--SISS! BOOM! HURRAH!                           129
   XVI.--"THE FINEST THING THAT EVER HAPPENED TO FAIRFIELD!"    137








CHAPTER I.

THE TALK IN AN APPLE TREE.


A NUMBER of active boys were perched high among the heavily laden
branches of a big fall pippin apple tree, back of the old Philander
Smith house, located just outside the limits of the thriving town of
Hickory Ridge.

"Take care, Landy!" called out Chatz Maxfield, whose soft, mellow voice
told of his Southern birth; "that long ladder might chance to slip, suh,
and it would be a long ways to the ground!"

"Oh, shucks! I've got the upper end wedged fast in the crotch along the
outside of this limb, Chatz. And believe me, I'm getting my basket full
of the biggest yellow pippins you ever saw. Who cares for expenses,
anyhow?"

Landy, whose father owned the property, was very much inclined to be
fat; though he would never admit the fact; and was forever declaring he
had a new method of exercise that would reduce him to a "living
skeleton," sooner or later.

Besides Chatz Maxfield, whose real name, of course, was Charles, the
busy bees in the tree who were assisting their chum pick the ripe apples
on this late August day consisted of three fellows, all members of the
Hickory Ridge troop of Boy Scouts; and well known to every lad who has
read the preceding volumes in this series.

First there was Ty Collins. Every boy in town would know Ty as far away
as they could see him; for, when not going to school, winter and summer
he clung to an old red sweater that he seemed to love above all the
garments he possessed.

Then came a small fellow, Jasper Merriweather by name, whose one
ambition it was to get out of the "runt" class. Jasper was never weary
of asking some one to take his measure, and compare it with past
records; but thus far he had not made much progress toward reaching the
ordinary height of a lad of fifteen. Still, he clung to hope and tried
to fill his position as Number Four in the Beaver Patrol, to the best of
his ability.

Last of all, but by no means least, was Ted Burgoyne. Ted had the
misfortune to lisp when he grew the least bit excited; though no one
ever knew him to acknowledge the fact, and indeed, if accused, he would
grow very indignant, even while others could catch the fatal slip in his
warm denial.

They called him "Dr. Ted," for the very good reason that he had his
heart set on medicine and surgery, and often found himself in great
demand to practice on his fellow scouts. Outside of a few rather wild
theories, and a boy-like desire to have a little fun out of things, Ted
was quite practical. He was held much in respect by the twenty odd boys
constituting the khaki troop.

The Hickory Ridge troop had passed the experimental stage of progress,
and had become an established fact. Three patrols, of eight boys each,
were complete, and there were candidates to start a fourth, if they
could meet the requirements and feel capable of subscribing to the
twelve cardinal principles that every true scout has to try to live up
to.

Lately a rival troop had sprung up in Fairfield, led by one Matt Tubbs.
Formerly Matt had only been known as a great bully, and those who
trained with him had served under his banner simply through fear,
without a grain of respect.

But Matt had, strange to say, seen a great light. He had watched the
boys of the khaki troop in their open-air tests. Something in the
business seemed to appeal strongly to him; and then had come the
determination to start a troop in his town.

Of course he ran up against a snag in the beginning, for no boy with the
loose principles Matt held at that time could ever be accepted as a
scout. He studied the matter, watched the Hickory Ridge lads some more,
and then came the great awakening.

And now Matt Tubbs was on the right road. He controlled his followers
just as thoroughly as before, but generally in a different manner. They
respected him too. Still, once in a while the old spirit cropped out;
and it was told how, when one of his cronies, thinking to take advantage
of this new mantle of meekness, boldly challenged Matt to a fight, the
new leader of the Fairfield troop gave him the best kind of a whipping;
after which he helped bind up his scratches, and stop the flow of blood
from his nose.

But the insurrection had been nipped in the bud: and they did say that
Matt tried to atone for his breaking of the rules of the organization by
being unusually patient with those under him who had difficulty in
keeping up with the reform pace he set.

It was pretty generally understood all through the region that Matt
Tubbs might never have started to climb the ladder only for the boyish
sympathy which he received from Elmer Chenowith, the leader of the
Hickory Ridge troop, and assistant to the scout master, Mr. Garrabrant.

And the reformation of the worst boy in Fairfield and Cramertown long
astonished the good people of those communities. When they awakened to
the truth that it was no myth, but apparently an accomplished fact, they
were quick to give most of the credit to the discipline of the new
organization.

And the Fairfield troop from that time on had never lacked for backing
from the parents of those boys connected with the same.

The fellows in the apple tree had been talking about these things as
they helped Landy pick the fruit, a task that had been set for him by
his father, and which must be fulfilled ere he could get off for play
that day.

Of course they also discussed the great baseball game that had recently
been played between the rival troops, in which Hickory Ridge came out
victor, after a very strenuous afternoon's work.

"The way Lil Artha circles the bases gets me," declared Ty Collins, as
he munched on a particularly fine specimen of fruit he had struck, and
which tempted him beyond his capacity to decline, though it was possibly
the seventh he had eaten within the hour.

"Oh, I don't know," remarked Ted, swinging his legs from the limb he
straddled. "Most persons theem to think there's no one tho fatht as Lil
Artha. Now, I admit in the thtart that he can cover the ground at a
pretty rapid rate; but nobody knowth jutht how long he could hold out on
a long hike. I've got my own ideath on that thubject, fellows."

"Sure you have, and so have a lot of others in the troop, suh," declared
Chatz. "Might I ask who you think would have the best chance in an
endurance hike that would last, say for twenty-four hours straight?"

"Why, Elmer would, for a thtarter," replied the other, quickly; "and if
that ain't enough, what'th the matter with Ty Collinth himthelf? Theemth
to me you'd hold out, and give long-legged Lil Artha a run for hith
money."

"Me for Matty Eggleston!" declared Jasper, eagerly; for the boy in
question was leader of the patrol to which Jasper belonged, and in his
eyes seemed a marvel second only to Elmer himself.

"If Lil Artha fell down on the long run, I kind of think Red Huggins
might pull in a victor," Ty went on. "That fellow is just chock-full of
grit. When he shuts his teeth, and starts in, there's no telling where
he'll stop."

"How about George Robbinth, your couthin, Matty?" asked Ted. "I've theen
him walk half a dozen fellowth until they admitted they weren't in the
thame clath? Perhaps now he might have a chance to win in a long tetht."

"Oh, George is a good one, all right," declared Landy. "Our family is
noted for producing marvels. You just wait a little while longer, till I
trim my weight down a few more pounds, and I'll show you something worth
while. Huh, if there was a long-distance hike right now, d'ye know I'd
be strongly tempted to enter. You never can tell. Appearances are
sometimes mighty deceiving, boys."

"There's another swift one in our bunch, fellows," called out little
Jasper, who never could hope to enter any of these competitions until
Nature was kinder to him, and began to add a few inches to his stature.

"Who's that, Jasper?" demanded Ty, perched high up in the immense tree,
and lowering his basket when filled with an ingenious tackle he had
contrived so that he need not climb down with a bulky load; though twice
he had managed to upset the whole picking, to the disgust of Landy who
feared the apples would be too badly bruised to find a market, as his
father intended.

"What d'ye say to Jack Armitage?" the small scout went on. "Ever seen
him get around and steal bases, no matter what the catcher was doing?
He's a screamer, that's what! But of course I ain't sure how Jack would
hold out on a twenty-four-hour walk. He's full of staying power though,
and might surprise some fellows who have been reckoned at the top of the
heap."

"Well, you fellows have about put all the available candidates on the
list," declared Ty, laughing because he himself figured in the same.
"Elmer is out of the running because he got a thorn in his foot a day or
two ago, and is limping to beat the band. His best chum, Mark Cummings,
might enter, but it happens he's out of town and may not be back for a
week. But what's all this talk going to amount to, anyhow?"

"We ought to have thith important question thettled, boyth!" declared
Ted.

"There's been a heap of hot air circulating for a month past about who
is the best all-round walker in the troop," remarked Jasper; "and seems
to me that matter ought to be threshed out, once and for all!"

"Hurrah, that's the talk, Jasper!" cried Chatz, throwing an apple at the
other.

"Bully boy!" called Ty. "Go on and make a suggestion, Jasper. You've got
something in your noodle after all. Keep it up, my boy, and success to
you."

"That's right, Jasper," said Landy, stretching around to pick several
tempting yellow beauties that seemed just beyond the reach of his rather
short arm. "Tell us what you've been thinking about. Is it a big hike
for the best walkers and runners of the celebrated Hickory Ridge
troop?"

Jasper swelled with importance. It was not often he found himself in the
lime light, and his opinion in demand. The experience seemed delightful,
and he was not in too great a hurry to satisfy the demand for
information; since once they had his views the discussion must become
general, and he would only stand on an equal footing with the rest.

"Well, to tell the truth I was thinking about suggesting a great hike,
with, say a limit of half a dozen fellows connected with the troop as
contestants. Perhaps you noticed that I mentioned a twenty-four-hour
consecutive tramp as the basis of the test. Each fellow could be bound
by a solemn promise not to accept a lift on the way, under penalty of
displacement. And several others, like Elmer for instance, might keep
tabs on the bunch by following them on their wheels."

"Listen to him, will you? Hasn't Jasper got it down pat?" cried Landy,
again exerting himself to the utmost to gather in another lot of
unusually tempting pippins.

"He's going to fill a long-felt want," declared Chatz. "We need an
organizer, some one who could take the responsibility of fixing up these
meets from the over-burdened shoulders of Elmer. And, suh, I suspect
Jasper is going to develop into a master of ceremonies."

"Then you rather like the idea, fellows?" asked the small scout, pleased
beyond measure.

"It's just the thing," declared Ty.

"We'll take the thame up at wunth, and have the affair arranged in a
jiffy," Ted announced.

"Hey, take care there, Landy, your ladder's slipping! Quick, grab hold
of something, or you're a goner!" shouted Ty, suddenly.

Landy tried to wriggle himself back again, but his stretch had been
fatal to all chances for maintaining his position. The top of the long
ladder lost its grip in the swaying crotch and slid from under him.
There was a rattle of apples thudding down on the ground twenty feet
below; but Landy had, on the spur of the moment, seized hold of the
outer branches, so that there he hung, swinging back and forth; afraid
to let go, and yet incapable of long maintaining his frantic grip.




CHAPTER II.

JASPER'S IDEA TAKES ROOT.


"HOOP-LA, somebody grab me before I drop!" shouted Landy, as he kept
trying to get a grip with his fat legs on the foliage of the outer
branches which seemed to take particular delight in evading his
ambitious designs.

"Get a feather bed under him!" shrieked Ty, although at the same time he
was changing his position in the tree with all possible haste, meaning
to assist the clinging boy, if it could possibly be done.

"Oh, save me first, and joke about it afterward!" cried Landy, who was
really alarmed and under a tremendous strain, both bodily and mentally.

"If I only had a rope with a loop in it, I could lasso him!" declared
Jasper.

"But you haven't, you see," cried Landy. "Think up something else! Hurry
along, boys; I can't hold out much longer. I'm no Elmer as a gymnast.
I'm slipping right now, I tell you. Wow! Is that measly old ladder under
me, and will I come down with a splash on it?"

He panted as he uttered this complaint, and the boys saw that his face
resembled the setting sun, as he looked up to them almost piteously. But
who could reach him there? On the very outer edge of the big tree, with
the ground fully twenty feet below, and nothing to break his fall, it
began to look like a serious business for poor Landy.

Dr. Ted realized that there was real danger of the boy getting a broken
leg if he fell that distance. Landy was not like agile Lil Artha, or
some other members of the troop. His weight made him solid, and being
without any spring, he would likely come down with a dull, sickening
thud.

"Hold on as long as you can, Landy!" yelled Ted, even neglecting to lisp
in his great excitement.

He was slipping down the tree like a "greased pig," as Jasper termed it,
though what that sort of animal would be doing up in an apple tree he
never took the trouble to explain.

Ty saw what the idea was. He had been about to try and reach Landy by
standing far out on a limb; but the prospect of success was very small.
And so he followed Ted down the tree, slipping from limb to limb with
the agility that some boys can only display when the owner of the
orchard is seen coming on the full run with a ferocious bulldog at his
heels.

"Oh, hurry! hurry! I'm near gone, and can't hold out much longer!
What're you doing down there to help me, boys?" wailed the one whose
legs swung back and forth like a couple of pendulums, as they vainly
sought for a chance to grip something that would ease the strain on his
arms above.

"The ladder! They've gone to set it up again, Landy! Just hold on half a
minute longer. And there's Elmer jumped off his bicycle; and he's
already raising it up. Set your teeth, Landy; take a fresh grip, and
it's going to be all right!"

So the excited Jasper shouted as he sat there in the tree, unable to
lend a helping hand, but at least capable of offering good advice.

A boy who had been coming toward the place on a wheel, seeing the state
of affairs, had instantly sized up the situation; and even while those
in the tree were shouting back and forth, and before they could get
started, Elmer Chenowith, jumping from his saddle, had limped forward to
where the unlucky ladder lay.

By the time Ted, followed by Ty, landed on the ground, he had raised it
single-handed, and with a readiness that told of long familiarity with
ladders; for one not accustomed to such things would never know the
secret of bracing the bottom against some root and then lifting rapidly.

So just in the nick of time the treacherous ladder was dropped against
the outer branches of the tree, alongside the hanging boy. Elmer himself
flew up the rounds, for he feared that Landy, always more or less
clumsy, might not be able to swing his form around, and take advantage
of the opening.

But desperation gave Landy new abilities, and he managed by a violent
effort to roll around to the outer side of the leaning ladder. Utterly
exhausted by the strain he had been under, the fat boy must have slipped
helplessly down only that Elmer managed to clutch him.

Step by step the gasping Landy was lowered until he reached the bottom
round. He was no longer furiously red, but had turned a sickly white.

"Here, let him down on the ground," said Dr. Ted, taking command at that
point as though it were his acknowledged right. "He's only getting the
reaction now. I'll fix him up, boys, and he'll be picking apples again
before ten minutes, believe me."

He was as good as his word, for Landy soon recovered; but it was noticed
that from that moment the fat boy showed great caution how he climbed up
that ladder, by which he had once been betrayed.

"What was all that talk going on as I passed?" asked Elmer, a bright,
wide-awake young fellow, whose year out on a Canadian ranch belonging
to an uncle was proving of considerable value to him in his experience
as a scout.

"What did you hear?" asked Jasper, assuming a little of his former
importance.

"Seemed to me it smacked of a contest," Elmer replied, "and somebody was
telling how a few of us could keep tabs on the same, while using our
wheels. That struck me as interesting, and so, wanting to know more, I
just wheeled around, and was coming in through the back gate to the
garden when the ladder fell. Now tell me the rest, fellows, because you
all know that I'm head over ears interested in anything that touches on
contests of any sort."

"Well," spoke up Ty, grinning; "somehow we got to talking about who the
best all-round walker and runner in the troop might be. A lot of names
were mentioned, including my own. Then there were Red, Lil Artha, Matty,
George Robbins and Jack Armitage. Even Landy here threatened to enter
for the big hike."

"But what was the idea?" asked Elmer, his face aglow with interest.

"To fix up a long-distance hike, say for twenty-four consecutive hours;
and a few fellows, mounted on their wheels, kind of superintend things
by keeping tabs along the line. The contestant coming in ahead at the
end of the walk to be declared the pride of the troop, and the greatest
ever."

Jasper rattled all this off with a fluency that told how he had indeed
been deliberating over the scheme for some little time, and only sprang
it on his chums now because the talk had gotten around to the subject.

"How's that strike you, Elmer?" asked Ty.

"Yeth, give uth your opinion, Mr. Thcoutmaster!" echoed Ted.

"Boys, it's just dandy, and that's a fact!" declared Elmer. "We can make
up the arrangements to-night, if you'll all come around to my house.
I'll get a lot of the other boys on the phone. I was thinking this
morning that we ought to have a meeting about now, anyway, for there are
a lot of matters that need attention."

"Then if you say so, it will be a go," declared Jasper, highly pleased
because his little scheme had met with such instant approval at the
hands of one in whom he placed the utmost confidence.

"Sure to be, Jasper," came the reply. "And it does you great credit too.
Some of us were wondering what we might do to stir things up a little.
With school opening just two weeks off, we want to make the most of the
few days left of our vacation. Now this big hike will be just the
thing."

"Besides, you see, Elmer," the small scout continued, eagerly, "it's
going to settle a dispute between the lot of us here. Some think one
fellow is going to have a walkover, and others hold different opinions.
Of course we all know you're bound to be shut out, on account of that
sore foot of yours. And as Mark is out of town, he can't enter the game
either. But we think the six fellows we picked out ought to make things
lively enough to suit anybody."

"They will, for a fact," replied Elmer. "Of course I pin my faith on Lil
Artha, but I may be mistaken just as well as any one of you. But I must
be going, fellows, as I was on an errand, and just ran around here to
see how you were getting on. Better not try those gymnastics again,
Landy. That was an ugly scrape for even an acrobat, let alone a fellow
as chunky as you are."

"Elmer, never again," said the fat boy, solemnly, as he slowly shook his
head. "I'll be sore for a week after that job. My arms feel right now
like they'd been nearly pulled out of their sockets. Gee, but nobody
can understand just how it feels to be hanging twenty feet up, on the
outside branches of a tree, and slowly slipping, slipping! And I lost a
basket of the biggest pippins you ever saw; every one a prize winner,
but now all bruised and wasted!"

"You'd have been the biggest squashed pippin of the lot if you went down
that time," sang out Ty from the top of the tree.

"Now that's real cruel of you, Ty," complained Landy; but he did not
take the jibes of his comrades much to heart, for he was fond of a joke
himself.

"Remember, every one of you drop around to-night," said Elmer, as he
picked up his wheel, which he had hastily thrown aside at the moment he
discovered how necessary prompt action was required in order to save
Landy.

"Any chance of striking some of that delightful sponge cake your
housekeeper makes to beat the Dutch?" asked Landy, who had never
forgotten the treat set before the scouts the last time some of them
were invited around to Elmer's home.

"Seems to me Mrs. Gregg was making a big batch this very morning when I
left home," called back Elmer; just as if he hadn't asked her to do the
same, since he intended having the boys in khaki there that night.

"Then count me in," declared the fat boy, firmly; "even if my arms are
so sore I'll have to ask somebody to raise the cake to my mouth. Yum,
yum; that was the finest thing that ever came down the pike, barring
none! And you tell her that, Elmer, with my compliments."

"All right, I will," sang out the departing one, as he passed out of the
rear gate, mounted on his wheel and riding as one to the manner born.

The apple picking went on, with the heap at the base of the tree
growing in size as basket after basket was added to it. And the
conversation between the five lads covered a great variety of subjects
as they stripped the big tree of its golden freight.

"What makes me sore," remarked Landy with a big sigh, "is the fact that
I upset the basket that held the finest apples going. You see, my dad
expected to show some of these at the fair next week, if they turned out
as well as they looked from the ground. And I was just saying to myself
that I had the beauts, when the silly old ladder went back on poor
little Philander."

"Don't weep, old chap," called out Ty. "If you look over that last lot I
sent down on my little cable here, you'll find them the mates of the
ones you dropped. And for a wonder, too, I got that basket down safe
without an upset."

"Thanks, you make me happy again, Ty," remarked Landy. "And for that
you'll be remembered in my last will."

"Huh!" grunted Jasper; "he deserves a heap of credit for letting all
those fine pippins get past him; because he acted like he meant to
gobble every extra good one that came along. I've counted about a dozen
he's got away with up to now; and I think even at that he's just taken
the edge off his appetite."

"Well, in that case I'll get down and pick out a basket from the pile to
take in the house, before Ty starts at full speed," and Landy did
actually head for the ground to put his threat into execution.

So they kept up a crossfire of remarks, sometimes more or less witty,
until the last apple that could be reached was bagged. Then the game was
declared off, and Landy invited his chums in to help dispose of a quart
of peanuts he happened to have in his room.

"We'll all be around to-night at Elmer's house, I suppose?" remarked Ty
as, with Ted, Jasper and Chatz, he started for the door.

"Count on me, if I have to be carried on a stretcher," vowed Landy,
laughing at the speaker, as he recalled to mind the attractive lure that
had been held out for their attendance.

"And I'm anxious to have this thing put through," declared Jasper;
"because, you see, it was partly my suggestion; and besides, I've got a
hunch that the Fairfield troop are figuring on a long hike, to try out
their best fellows. I'd like to see our Lil Artha or Matty Eggleston up
against the best they have. It'd be a hike worth hearing about, believe
me, fellows."

"And perhaps we _can_ fix up a match; I'm going to mention the thing to
Elmer, anyhow," remarked Chatz, who really had no small nature, and
could see one of his comrades winning laurels without showing the
slightest envy.

And talking it over earnestly, they left Landy, heading for their
various homes.




CHAPTER III.

AS THE CLOCK IN THE TOWER BOOMED SIX.


IT lacked but ten minutes of six.

The sun had been up for about half an hour and there was every promise
of a fine August day. Possibly, before the shades of evening fell, the
heat of the dog days might prove more or less exhausting; but at that
early hour the outlook was all that could be asked.

Around the old church with the belfry, fully half the young people of
Hickory Ridge seemed to have congregated. Girls were there as well as
boys; for what with the sisters of the scouts, as well as all the other
fellows' sisters, the starting of what promised to be the greatest hike
on record among the lads of the new organization was an event that could
not be missed.

Of course, besides the six contestants, there were numerous other
khaki-clad members of the various patrols. Each fellow was, as a rule,
the center of a questioning group and felt compelled to supply all the
information in his power.

Mr. Garrabrant, the young man who served so faithfully as scout master
to the troop, was talking to the boys who expected to participate in the
long tramp. He encouraged them, and at the same time laid down the law
in plain language.

No one was to accept any kind of a ride while on the hike; even if only
for a short space, it would invalidate all his rights to be considered
in the contest. And of course each fellow gave his solemn word of honor
to abide faithfully by the rules, a copy of which had been given to him.

The conditions were simple enough; Mr. Garrabrant had arranged with the
scout master of the troop of Boy Scouts in Little Falls, and each of the
rival contestants was supplied with a letter of greeting, which they
were to hand to that gentleman upon arriving at the headquarters in
Little Falls. This town being some forty-seven miles away from Hickory
Ridge, as the crow flies, it can be seen that a herculean task awaited
the boys, in order to cover this distance inside of the twenty-four
hours.

What added spice to the game was the fact that it was known there were
to be several fellows who meant to leave Fairfield at exactly the same
hour, and under similar conditions. And the spirit of Hickory Ridge was
aroused in civic pride. They yearned to win out over all competitors,
just as they had done in that wonderful baseball game only a short time
before.

Elsie Craig, one of the prettiest girls in the whole town, and who was
particularly fond of Elmer, waylaid Landy as he was changing his
position, meaning, to get closer to the group where the six who had
entered for the race were making ready for the start.

"Oh, please wait a couple of minutes, Landy!" she exclaimed, with an
entreating smile on her winsome face.

Landy, much as he wanted to get where he could hear the last
instructions given to the half dozen scouts before they started, could
not resist this plea. Truth to tell, Landy was a little "soft" himself
when it came to a certain girl, and Elsie happened to be her chum.

"All right, Elsie," he remarked, as he came to a halt, though looking
longingly toward the excited group about Mr. Garrabrant. "What can I do
for you?"

"I want to know, that's all. Elmer is so busy he just can't spend one
little minute talking to me," she replied with a pout.

"Why, you see, he just has to do his duty as the assistant scout
master," declared Landy, actually wincing when the girl rested a hand on
one of his sore arms. "But I was at the meeting where all the
particulars were decided on, and perhaps I might be able to tell you
what you want to know, Elsie."

"First of all, do the boys only walk and not run?" she asked, eagerly.

"This is a hike, and that means a walk, not a Marathon race. So every
fellow is put on his honor not to run," replied Landy.

"But I should think Arthur Stansbury had all the advantage, because he
can take such big steps," observed the girl, frowning a little, as
though Lil Artha had never been a very great favorite of hers.

Landy laughed with the air of one who knows all the ins and outs of
walking matches.

"Oh, that's nothing to go by, Elsie," he declared, with a shrug of his
shoulders that compelled him to make an immediate grimace, for the
muscles were sore. "Why, it often happens that some little runt can
outstrip a fellow nearly twice his height. It's endurance that tells in
the long run. The boy who can set his teeth together, and fight it out
to the bitter end. That's what Mr. Garrabrant says, and all of us
athletes understand it."

Elsie smiled, and looked roguishly up and down Landy's plump form when
she heard him mention that word so proudly. But then, after that
experience when the ladder fell and left him dangling twenty feet from
the ground, Landy really believed he deserved to be classed among the
strenuous ones, even though it might be in an humble capacity.

"And they have to walk all the way to Little Falls before to-morrow
morning; poor fellows, don't I pity them, though!" the girl went on.
"Elmer would have been in the game too, only for that ugly thorn in his
foot. And don't you think he would surely have won the prize, Landy, if
he had competed?"

"Oh, nearly everyone believes that," replied the fat boy, readily;
"though to tell the truth, there never has been a hike like this around
here before, and we don't just know who's got the Injun sign on the rest
of the bunch. Between you and me, Elsie, I'm pinning some faith on
George Robbins. You know he's my cousin, and he's got some of the old
Philander Smith stock in him. The record of my family is a proud one";
and he drew himself up as he inflated his chest with a pompous air that
would have well become the drum major of the town band.

"To be sure, Landy," remarked the little miss, quickly; "and it covers a
lot of ground, too. Why, even in history we come across it every now and
then. But, Landy, how will it be known that the six contestants keep to
the route that has been laid out for them? Some one might look up a map
and find a road that would be a short cut. That would be an unfair
advantage."

"Sure it would," remarked the boy; "and it was just to prevent knowledge
and craft from winning when this was to be a question of speed and
endurance, Mr. Garrabrant says, that made the committee insist on
stations along the way."

"Stations? Whatever do you mean by that?" Elsie demanded.

"Well, they picked out a number of taverns where one of the scouts who
goes on ahead with Mr. Garrabrant will establish a register. In that
book every fellow in the great hike is expected to enter his name in his
own handwriting, also the time of his arrival and departure."

"Oh, now I understand; and Landy, that is a clever idea!" the girl
exclaimed. "But Elmer intends setting out on his wheel later on in the
day; will you please tell me what reason there is for that, Landy?"

"Oh, it was arranged by the committee, that's all. Several of the
fellows will go from time to time. Sort of keep tabs on the contestants
and see how they are getting on. I expected to be chosen to be one of
these inspectors, but I had a little accident yesterday that knocked me
out. But all the fellows said that the game old Philander Smith spirit
cropped out, and that few boys could have held on up in that tree as
long as I did."

But if sly Landy expected in this manner to lead the conversation into a
personal line, so that he could glorify his own prowess, he made a
mistake. Evidently the pretty little miss with the golden locks and the
blue eyes had no desire to hear about his wonderful escape.

"How will the six contestants get anything to eat on the way?" she
asked.

"Oh, that's left to them," answered the fat boy, frowning with
disappointment over the failure of his attempt to rivet her attention on
himself. "They can stop and have a meal at any old tavern; but I reckon
most of the fellows are wise to the fact that they must lose valuable
time that way. I know George has a snack stowed away in his haversack
right now. He's on to all the dodges, you know."

"Why, of course he is, because he is your cousin, Landy. But suppose one
of the poor fellows breaks down? It's a terrible long trip, and all
sorts of things might happen, don't you think?" Elsie continued.

"Not much danger of that, I guess," Landy answered. "You see every one
of them had to undergo a physical examination before Mr. Garrabrant
would allow them to enter; and they're all as fit as fiddles. Of course
we don't expect that after they've put, say twenty miles, behind them
they'll be as chipper as they are now. Their feet will drag more or
less; but that's where the grit must show."

"They expect to start all at the same time, then?" asked the girl.

"Sure, but after a mile or so they'll be likely to separate. One will
believe the pace too warm for the start, and drop back. You know they
say it's a bad thing to urge your horse early in a long race. All sorts
of ideas will prevail, so that long before the first ten miles have been
covered the six boys may be far apart, and each trudging along to suit
his ideas."

"How much you know about all these things, Landy!" said Elsie, with a
twinkle in her sunny eyes that he failed to catch; for he again
stiffened up with that superior air that boys are apt to assume when
explaining the science of baseball or some other manly sport to a girl
who has never attended a game before.

"Oh, well, we just have to, you see, if we ever expect to make good
scouts," he replied, thinking that after all Elsie was even a little
prettier than her chum, when she chose to smile on a fellow that way.
"And besides, we pick up a lot of information from our scout master, and
Elmer, who knows all about woodcraft, because he lived out on the big
plains. But it must be getting near time for the start, because they're
lining up now. Let's push ahead so we can see what happens."

Despairing of getting away while the persistent little maid continued to
seek information, Landy was now hedging, and content to carry her along
with him as he pushed through the crowd of talking, laughing spectators.

The clock in the church tower pointed to two minutes of six. And at the
first stroke of the hour they were expected to be off.

Six boys stood in line, eager and expectant. Their particular friends
called out encouraging words, and there was a perfect babel of confusion
about this time. But Mr. Garrabrant anticipating such a happening, had
spoken the last words of caution. So that there was now nothing to be
done but wait for the loud boom of the big clock in the tower.

"Good luck, Lil Artha!"

"Keep that good left foot of yours going right along, George!"

"Red, we're counting on you to win out, remember!"

"That's Ty Collins on the extreme left; just you watch his smoke!"

"Take it easy, Matty! You know the rules of the game, old fellow!"

"Jack, don't you ever come around again unless you bring that prize with
you!"

This last created a roar of laughter, as one of the scouts imitated the
voice of a girl whom everyone knew Jack Armitage was sweet on.

One minute of six!

Gradually this clamor died down as the critical minute drew closer and
closer. Many eyes were turned upon the big face of the clock on the side
of the square tower of the church.

"Ready, all!" they heard Mr. Garrabrant call out.

Then came a deathly silence. Everyone craned his or her neck, and the
figures of the six contestants who wore the khaki garments of the Boy
Scouts proved to be the hub of all glances.

Some of the boys looked grim and determined; others, like tall Lil
Artha, wore confident smiles, as though they believed in their hearts
that it would be an easy snap. But all were evidently primed to do their
level best, no matter what the final result.

Ah! There was a whirring sound up in the tower. Well did the boys know
that the big clock always emitted this seeming gasp just before the
striking of the hour. Then came a reverberating boom!

It was time.

"Hurrah!" yelled the crowd, as hats and handkerchiefs filled the air;
"they're off!"

"And may the best man win!" said the smiling scout master, looking after
the fast walking line of contestants.




CHAPTER IV.

SIGNS OF TROUBLE.


"LOOK at 'em all in a bunch!" cried one of the watchers; for the crowd
had been particularly requested not to follow the six walkers or annoy
them in the start.

"But with Lil Artha at the head!" called another exultantly.

"But they're all keeping up close with him, even if Red does have to
cover five steps to three by Lil Artha. It ain't the length of a
fellow's legs that counts for everything in a hike, let me tell you!"

"Shucks! Why, Lil Artha is just playing with 'em," laughed another.

"Sure he is; when he feels like it, he'll make a ring around the rest,
and then not be pushed!"

"Oh, he will, eh? Shows how much you know about these things. Lil Artha
may be due to a little surprise before many hours go past; and it'll be
George Robbins who will do it," said Landy, proudly.

"For he has the true Philander Smith grit," sang another; at which there
was a shout from the rapidly breaking-up crowd, for this little weakness
on the part of the fat boy was pretty generally known.

Presently a turn in the road shut out the walkers. They were all going
strong when last seen, and Lil Artha even turned to wave a jaunty
farewell to those of his friends who had wished him success in the great
hike.

Elmer and the balance of the scouts gathered together to talk over
matters connected with the affair. A plan of campaign had been mapped
out with almost as much care as if a battle were impending. Indeed, all
sorts of road maps had been consulted in laying out the course over
which the six contestants were expected to pass. And a copy of the same,
as well as the rules governing their actions, had been sent over to the
Fairfield troop at the earnest request of the scout master who had
lately taken charge there.

The morning began to wear on.

Some of those who had gathered to watch the start had come without
waiting for breakfast, though the scouts, as a rule, could not be
reckoned in that class, being early risers. And as the hours went by
there was always more or less excitement around headquarters.

Several fellows had brought their wheels around. These were the chosen
inspectors whose duty it was to sally forth at certain hours when Elmer
gave the word, and pick up the several contestants along the way,
perhaps telephoning any interesting news connected with them from some
convenient inn where the registers were placed.

Mr. Garrabrant and one of the scouts had gone off in an auto long ago.
They expected to establish the chosen stations and leave the registers
in which each fellow was to enter the time of his coming and going.

At ten o'clock the first scout on a wheel was sent out. Another would
follow at twelve, and around four Elmer, as the last inspector, expected
to start. He chose to be last because a fellow who owned a motorcycle
had loaned it to him for the occasion, and thus he had a big advantage
over the others.

When noon came there was a ripple of interest. A scout had come from the
store where the telephone station happened to be located, and he
brought the first news of the big hike.

All the contestants had made the first station easily, passing within
five minutes of each other. And, strange to say, it was Lil Artha whose
time seemed to be just at the tail end of the procession. No one could
understand it, and all sorts of speculations began to pass current.

"Got a stone in his shoe and bruised his heel!" one suggested.

"More'n likely he's gone and strained a tendon again; remember he did
that two years ago when he made the home run that won the game!" another
exclaimed.

"Rats!" called out a third, scornfully. "The sly old fox is only doing
that for fun. He's playing with the other fellows, believe me. When he
gets good and ready he'll pass the bunch, and leave 'em so far behind
they'll forget their names. Oh, I know Lil Artha! Why, he even took his
little camera along. Said he wanted to snap off a few pictures on the
way, just to pass time, when he got too lonesome."

After a hasty lunch the boys again assembled at the church, and if
anything, in greater numbers than before; for every fellow in town
seemed to be on the spot, anxious to hear what news might come dribbling
in.

Two o'clock came, and with it a running scout from the store, where
several were stationed in order to be ready to answer the phone.

More news, and of a character to arouse great excitement. At the second
station there was a difference of just thirteen minutes between the
arrival of the leader and the last contestant. That leader was Lil
Artha; and sad to relate, the tail ender trailed the proud banner of the
Philander Smiths in the dust, for it was no other than George.

"Told you so!" burst out the fellow who had been so positive about the
tall Lil Artha playing tricks. "He's starting now; and by night time
he'll be hull down in the distance. It's sure a walkover for Lil Artha."

"Reckon you're right, and that it's all over but the shouting!" declared
another, who had been for Red Huggins, but proved rather weak-kneed in
his faith.

Strange how the different natures of boys crop out under such
conditions.

"Huh, it's too early in the game to throw up the sponge like that, Ben!"
declared another fellow, derisively. "All sorts of things might happen
to Lil Artha. You never can tell about them long-legged fellows. They're
apt to double up like a hinge with cramps or something. Wait and see.
Jack's holding his own with the rest, because he was only three minutes
behind the leader!"

"Next time it'll be half an hour, because Lil Artha has unlimbered his
heavy artillery. Why, I bet you he's going along like a Weston, right
now, and just eating the miles up."

"Yes, we'll get a message from Little Falls any minute now telling how
he blew in there with his seven-league boots, and has started back!"
mocked another, who apparently did not love the lanky one any too well.

Meanwhile Elmer was trying to keep his finger on the pulse of things as
well as he could. It was while he was taking a look at the motorcycle
that had been placed at his disposal, to make sure the tank had a full
gallon and a half of oil aboard, and everything in order for a start,
that he heard the tooting of a horn up the road.

A couple of the scouts chanced to possess motorcycles. True, they had
seen considerable of service, and were often in a condition far from
useful; but then Nat Scott, whose father was at the head of the schools
in Hickory Ridge, and Toby Jones, had had more or less sport in times
past with the second-hand machines purchased with their savings.

It was now just five minutes of four, and Elmer expected to make his
start as the hour struck. He knew that he would have time enough to
overtake the leading walker long before night set in.

Somewhat to his surprise, the boys who were coming began to shout as
soon as they drew near; and he noticed that both of them seemed very
much excited.

Elmer's face paled a trifle. He wondered whether any accident could have
overtaken one of the contestants; though he could not imagine how such a
thing might be.

"Hold on, Elmer, was afraid we wouldn't get here in time to catch you!"
called Nat, as they came along, both machines popping merrily; though it
might be noticed that they were erratic in their explosions, proving
that the spark could not be doing its full duty.

Of course nothing could have tempted Elmer to hasten off now. He wanted
to hear what these scouts had to say.

And he remembered something just then. Neither Nat nor Toby had been
present to witness the start of the six who had entered for the race.
The scout master had appointed them, at their earnest request, as a
committee to go over to Fairfield and watch the start of those scouts in
the rival organization, so as to bring back a detailed account.

Perhaps Mr. Garrabrant, knowing boys as well as he did, may have
secretly suspected that it might pay to have a couple of wide-awake
fellows around Fairfield during the day to keep their eyes and ears
open. He happened to know that there had arisen a new bully in
Fairfield, who was doing all in his power to assume the reins laid down
by Matt Tubbs at the time he saw a great light and gave over his evil
ways when taking up the attractive scout movement. And it might be that
some of those turbulent Fairfield fellows would get together and hatch
up a scheme for keeping the Hickory Ridge scouts from winning the long
hike.

All this flashed into the mind of Elmer as he saw Nat and Toby speeding
toward the church and waving their hands as they shouted.

They came to a stop with something of a dramatic effect, and leaned
their motorcycles up against the wall of the church. Of course there was
a rush on the part of everyone within sight and hearing of the spot; and
already all sorts of wild theories were circulating, as they will at
such a time.

"What's happened, d'ye think?" one gasped, looking frightened; for he
had a brother in the contest, and his first fear was that something had
happened to him.

"One of the boys must have been badly hurt! Perhaps they've come for the
ambulance to fetch him home!"

"Aw, get out! What's the use talkin' that way, Jim? However could they
get knocked out that way?"

"Besides, ain't Nat and Toby been over at Fairfield all day under
orders? Must be news from that place. Perhaps Matt Tubbs has gone back
to his old ways again and plans to do our fellows up on the road!"

"Matt Tubbs is all right, and don't you forget it. Here, quit your
pushin', and give a feller a chance to get in near Elmer!"

Meanwhile Elmer had waited until the two scouts had saluted, as they had
been taught to do when meeting a superior officer; since respect to
authority is one of the cardinal principles to which the tenderfoot
subscribes when he first joins a patrol.

"Have you just come from Fairfield, Number Four?" Elmer asked, turning
first to Toby, who belonged to the Wolf Patrol, which was under his own
particular care as patrol leader.

"Yes, sir; been there all day," replied Toby, who was breathing rather
hard, as though he might have been having trouble with his machine on
the road, and had found it necessary to do considerable wrestling with
it in order to make the old tub behave.

"You were dispatched there by our scout master, in order to watch the
start of the Fairfield scouts, and be able to give a detailed report of
the same?" Elmer continued.

"Just what we were, sir; but that was not the whole extent of our
instructions," Toby went on.

"I believe you were also told to stay around during the better part of
the day, mingling with the boys of the town all you could, and learning
if any underhand doings were being engineered among the tough element
outside of the scouts?"

"That's what," replied Toby. "And just this afternoon we got on to
something by accident that we thought ought to be reported to
headquarters. Wanted to phone it, but they're repairing the wire between
here and Fairfield, and we had to try another way. So we hit up a hot
pace and came over direct on our machines; though of course we had
trouble on the road."

"You did the right thing, Number Four," remarked Elmer. "And now, tell
us what you learned. Is there any sign of treachery afoot?"

"Just that, as sure as you live!" cried Nat, unable to hold himself in
longer, when he had as much right to be heard as his mate. "They're
getting up a scheme to upset all our plans. We didn't hear a breath
about it till three, but the fellers in the game had started more'n an
hour before."

"Meaning to waylay our boys, and put them out of the running?" asked
Elmer, showing signs of anger, as well as an eagerness to be moving.

"Yes, but not exactly by what Mr. Garrabrant would call physical
violence," Toby spoke up, pushing his comrade back at the same time.
"Four fellows who don't belong to the scouts, I'm glad to say, started
out in a car, with the intention of finding whether it seemed likely a
Hickory Ridge scout was far in the lead, and if he was, then they meant
to tempt him to ride with them for a mile or more, knowing that if he
did this he would be disqualified in the race."

"And if he refused, what then?" asked Elmer, knowing what the answer
would be.

"They mean to take him along against his will!" shouted Nat,
triumphantly, before Toby could answer.




CHAPTER V.

THE MOTORCYCLE SQUAD.


NOBODY spoke for several seconds; but those of the scouts who were in
the crowd looked at each other with gathering frowns. They saw instantly
that, according to the rules of the game, if one of the contestants
accepted a chance to ride, or even was induced against his will to be
carried over a part of the course in an auto, a wagon, or any conveyance
whatever, he would invalidate his chances.

"It's a rotten shame, that's what!" declared Larry Billings who belonged
to the Beaver Patrol, and pinned his faith on either Matty Eggleston or
Red Huggins carrying off the prize, for party faith was strong in the
troop.

"Just what you might expect from Fairfield!" cried another disgusted
one.

"Hold on, don't say that!" said Elmer, holding up his hand. "There are
decent fellows over there, just as there are in Hickory Ridge; and in
both places you can find some mean ones. Didn't you hear Toby and Nat
say that this contemptible game didn't crop up in the ranks of the
scouts of Fairfield, but some rank outsiders, who think they are doing
their mates a good turn, when in fact it's the worst thing they could
hatch up? Even if they win the prize it will always be tarnished; and
people will say it would have come to Hickory Ridge troop only for foul
play."

A clamor of many tongues broke loose. Everybody seemed to want to air
his or her views; and the girls were just as indignant as any of the
boys in denouncing the outrage.

"Here, you'll have to let up on that, friends, or else I'll take the
boys inside the church to talk with them," called Elmer, waving his
campaign hat with a show of authority.

"Keep still, everybody!"

"Give us a chance to think!"

"Let Elmer run it; he knows what to do!"

"Sure; and he'll do it, too, you bet. I'm sorry for them four Fairfield
bullies. They're going to be up against it good and hard, right quick
now!"

Gradually the racket ceased, and Elmer could talk again. Those who were
close enough leaned forward to listen, eager to understand just what
plan the young assistant scout master would engineer in the absence of
Mr. Garrabrant, with the idea of frustrating the clever if unscrupulous
scheme of the enemy.

It was a time that called for prompt action, as Elmer well understood.
If one of the Hickory Ridge scouts was well in the lead, doubtless those
four schemers in the automobile would, by the time night came on, start
operations. Whether the victim was Lil Artha, or any one of the others,
he could not successfully hold his own against four stout fellows. And
having once dragged him into the car, they meant to carry him many miles
along the route; dumping him out after they had "played hob," as Nat
expressed it, with all his chances.

Elmer thought fast. He had his motorcycle ready, and knew that in all
probability he could readily head off the game, unless it was rushed
through without waiting for night to fall.

The only thing that bothered him was the fact that he would be just one
against four; and in such a case he might suffer the same fate it was
intended to mete out to the leader in the race.

If only the machines of Nat and Toby could be depended on now, there was
nothing to prevent his taking the boys along; and he felt confident that
both of them were in a humor to accept at the drop of the hat. Filled
with indignation at the mean nature of the trick which those Fairfield
fellows had up their sleeve, and which they doubtless considered smart,
Toby and his mate would be only too glad of the chance to accompany the
scout leader on his mission of rescue.

"How about your gas?" he asked, turning to the boys; and it would seem
as if they understood just what the question implied, for a look of
delight took the place of the frown that had marked both faces.

"Heaps!" cried Toby, grinning.

"Filled mine just this morning, enough for seventy miles, and I haven't
gone more than thirteen!" declared Nat, also newly excited at the joyous
prospect.

"Then let's get a start away from here," Elmer called, for the noise had
begun again, and it was difficult to carry on any sort of a conversation
with comfort. "Anyhow, we can drop out of town a few miles, and then
stop to consult."

"Wow! That's the ticket, Elmer!" exclaimed Toby, making a rush for his
machine.

"Bully! Bully all around! I'm on deck, Johnny on the spot. Won't we do
'em up brown though, if we only ketch 'em," cried Nat, rather forgetting
that as a scout fighting was only to be resorted to as a last thing, and
then in defense of another rather than himself.

When the crowd saw the three getting ready to mount, they went fairly
wild; and every imaginable sort of exhortation was shouted. The news had
circulated like wild-fire, and everyone knew in some sort of hazy way
that the bullies of Fairfield were aiming to break up the great hike.

"Get 'em, Elmer!"

"Oh, you Fairfield crowd, we're sorry for you!"

"Pinch 'em, Elmer! Knock the skunks into the middle of next week!"

"You can do it, Elmer, we know you can! Give the rascals the best
licking they ever had! It's been a long time coming; hand 'em the
interest that's due!"

Evidently these last remarks did not come from any fellow in khaki,
since they had been learning other things from the day they signed the
roster of the scouts. But even Elmer himself was thrilled with
indignation; it seemed so mean and contemptible in those Fairfield boys
to want to spoil the greatest hike contest that had ever been started.

The machine that had been loaned to him was in good trim; and, moreover,
Elmer knew considerable about managing a motorcycle, though he had never
as yet owned one.

He started his engine without the least difficulty, and then jumped into
the saddle with the grace of one who had long since mastered the art.
The crowd opened up before him, and Elmer sped along the road.

"Oh, you Indian, I bank on you!" called one of the enthusiastic town
fellows.

"Hi! Get a move on you, Toby and Nat!"

"Give the old wrecks a poke in the slats, and make 'em be good!"

"There goes Toby! Good boy, you!"

"Now, Nat will you let that dare slip by? Hit her up, Nathan; that's the
ticket!"

"Whoopla! We're all off!"

In this fashion did they call out, with other remarks which space would
not admit of our printing. Nat had had a little trouble in making the
start, since his engine must have cooled down more or less; but after a
little fussing he managed to coax his battered old machine into emitting
a few rattling volleys, and then suddenly launched forward.

Passing a mile or so down the road, Elmer threw up his hand in the way
drivers have of telling that they mean to either turn aside or else
stop, and which is a warning for those who may be following to look
sharp.

Then, picking out a place where they could stand the heavy machines up
against a rail fence, he came to a halt, stepped off, and awaited the
coming of the others.

"What happened?" exclaimed Toby, as he, too, reached the spot and
dismounted.

"Had a puncture, or spark gone back on you?" demanded Nat, when he, too,
came booming along, to make a sudden halt and straddle his balky machine
while he talked.

"Nothing happened," returned Elmer; "but before we start off we want to
make sure it isn't going to be a wild-goose chase."

"But we heard that talk, and we don't think they could have been
kidding; because you see none of 'em dreamed we were near by," Toby
declared, vehemently.

"That may be all true enough," Elmer said, "and at the same time, unless
we know just what we aim to do, we may make a bad mess of it. Now, did
you learn anything that would tell just where they expected to hold our
fellow up, in case he was in the lead?"

"Why, no, of course not, Elmer," replied Toby. "You see, that would have
to depend altogether on how far the race had gone. It might be thirty
miles away from the start, and it might be less."

"Right. And we'll have to follow along the course in order to get ahead.
Here, we can put in a few minutes to good advantage studying my map.
I've got an idea that by taking the Glenville short-cut road we can save
five miles easy. Perhaps there may be some other ways of cutting the
distance down. We looked after that when we arranged the stations."

"Look here, Elmer, don't you think it might be a good idea for us to go
right along to the first station, and see if there has been any late
news from the front?" asked Nat.

"Gee, that sounds like we were in a regular battle!" declared Toby, his
face aglow with eagerness, as he awaited the scout leader's reply.

"A fine suggestion, Nat, and we'll do it, just as soon as we've glimpsed
this map again," observed the one addressed, as he sat down by the
roadside and drew a folded package from his pocket.

Elmer had made these road maps himself from one he found in the house.
They were rather cleverly done, and showed every road, with the
distances properly marked, all the way to Little Falls. Besides, they
had the various taverns, where stations had been established, carefully
marked in red ink, so that no one could complain that he lacked
information.

Running a finger along the route, Elmer quickly showed where in two
places they could, if they wanted, leave the main road and take
advantage of short cuts that must save them quite a number of miles.

"But after all," he said, shaking his head, as he glanced at the
motorcycles of his comrades, "it might be a case of saving at the spigot
and wasting at the bunghole."

"How's that, Elmer?" asked Toby, perplexed.

"Well, we don't know what shape these side roads may be in after that
heavy rain night before last," he answered, folding up the map.

"That's a fact!" ejaculated Toby; "and neither of us thought about that
for even a minute. Say, Nat, those roads are only dirt ones, and not
macadamized a single bit. Perhaps we wouldn't have a warm old time
jolting along over 'em, eh? I can just imagine your old omnibus going
out of commission before you made a quarter of a mile."

"Well, I admit that's so; but that would be about twice as far as your
rattlebox would carry you, Toby," the other remarked, with a sting in
his words.

But, then, when together they usually occupied much of their time, when
not engaged in waiting to make repairs, in poking fun at each other's
motorcycle; so that there was little venom to the sting. It had all been
threshed out time and time again.

"Do we tune up now, Elmer?" asked Toby, as he prepared for a flying
start, that would make his companion turn green with envy.

For answer Elmer took hold of his machine, manipulated the lever, and as
the engine started to throb, jumped into the saddle, much to the envy of
both the others, who could never depend on doing anything as they
planned.

However, they managed to get moving, though Elmer had to slow up at the
next bend in order to let them come along. He believed he would need
the assistance these two stout scouts were capable of affording; and but
for that must have been tempted to put on speed and leave them far in
the lurch to wrestle with their various troubles as best they might.

So they sped along. Now and then something would happen to one of the
old machines and cause a delay. Thanks to the presence of Elmer, who
knew more about machinery than either of the others, even though they
had owned motorcycles for years, these troubles were adjusted in an
unusually short time. Had it been otherwise, Elmer must have felt
compelled to abandon his running mates, since minutes were valuable to
him just then.

They presently came in sight of a road house, which Elmer understood was
the first on the list of stations. He also remembered that one of the
scouts had been detailed to remain at this place, to use the phone as a
sort of relay station, and transmit any message from farther up the
road.

"We'll hold up here a little while, boys," he remarked, as he shut off
power and prepared to bring his machine to a full stop. "Perhaps the
news from up the road may be worth listening to. Pull in and jump off.
There's Hen Condit in the doorway right now, beckoning to us."




CHAPTER VI.

GETTING IN A RUT.


"GREAT news, fellows!" called Hen Condit, as he gave the salute on
seeing that the assistant scout master was with the party on
motorcycles.

"What's that you say, Hen?" shouted Toby, making a flying jump from his
saddle that caused him to land plump on hands and knees before the road
house.

"Here, hold on, what d'ye think you're doing, Toby Jones?" called Nat,
who was showing a little more deliberation in dismounting. "Guess you're
dreaming about aeroplanes and all such tomfoolery. Think you can fly,
eh? Well, grow a pair of real wings first!"

Toby's pet hobby lay in the line of aeronautics. He was forever studying
up the mysteries of bird motion, and had the records of all the leading
aeroplane drivers at his finger tips, so that he could tell instantly
what was the highest point as yet reached by a bird-man; the fastest
flight made singly and with a passenger; the longest distance traversed
without alighting, and lots of other similar facts in which the average
boy might not be greatly interested.

He had several times made a gallant attempt to fly, but thus far the
machines he had constructed lacked some essential quality. At any rate
Toby had suffered pretty much as did the Darius Green of whom we older
fellows used to read in our earlier days; and perhaps can still
remember declaiming the story of a vaulting ambition that took a tumble
from the old barn roof.

Elmer gained the doorway where Hen Condit, one of the later recruits in
the Hickory Ridge troop, awaited him. Hen had only received his new
uniform on the preceding day, and hence he felt as proud as a peacock.
His chest had never before been known to have anything like the fine
appearance that it now presented. And only that morning his doting
father had remarked that joining the scouts had done more for the Condit
son and heir than years of pleading and scolding had effected, in so far
as making him stand up, and throw his shoulders back.

"Now, what's the news, Number Eight?" asked Elmer; for the boy in the
doorway belonged to the Wolf Patrol, though a real tenderfoot, in that
he had only qualified for the lowest rung in the ladder by learning how
to tie a number of knots, learning what the requirements of a scout
consist of, and similar things.

"I just had news from up the road, sir," said Hen, eagerly.

"Good news, or bad?" asked Elmer, just as if his eyes did not tell him
that.

"Fine and dandy, sir," was the reply.

"Of course connected with the advance member of our immortal six?" Elmer
continued.

"Sure." Hen forgot to add the term of respect now, for he was burning
with impatience to disclose his knowledge.

"Where from?" asked the scout leader.

"Rockledge, which is, I find, about thirty-two miles from Hickory Ridge
by the route marked out," answered Hen.

"That's right," muttered Toby, who had the map in his mind pretty
accurately, because he and Nat had often scoured the country when their
machines were newer and acted more decently.

"What was the report, Number Eight?" Elmer asked.

"One of our boys had just registered there. He was nearly half an hour
ahead of the next contestant; though that one appeared to be Felix
Wagner, the smart second baseman of the Fairfield nine!"

Elmer looked sober. He realized that the conditions seemed to be
peculiarly fitted for the carrying out of the scheme which those four
Fairfield plotters had arranged, and started up the road some time
before to execute, if it was necessary, in order to help their man win.

A Hickory Ridge scout half an hour ahead of the fleetest of the rival
organization! That would mean a Fairfield victory, providing the present
leader could in some way be disqualified.

"Who was the first man?" he asked, feeling pretty confident as to what
the answer would be.

"Lil Artha! He's doing the Hickory Ridge troop proud this day. We'll
forgive a heap in the way of practical jokes if he only comes in away
ahead of Felix," Hen observed, with the natural pride boys always take
in their home-town doings.

"Hurrah for Lil Artha! Didn't I always say he would show them a clean
pair of heels? Oh, he's a wonder at hiking and running! A three-bagger
for most fellows lets Lil Artha score the circuit. Bully boy, Artha!
Yes, we'll forgive everything if only he keeps this up and puts the
Injun sign on Fairfield."

Somehow or other it seemed as though most of their concern lay in the
possibility of the rival organization winning the laurels. No matter
which of the six home scouts came in ahead, if only he could have the
laugh on Fairfield!

"Half an hour ahead, you said, Number Eight?" Elmer pursued, as he
turned the matter over in his mind and began to figure as to just how
they should act in order to play the game right.

"That's what I got over the wire. If you want, you can call up Rockledge
now, and perhaps they'll be able to give more information," Hen Condit
answered.

"No need, I reckon. What we want to do now is to get busy," said Elmer.

His eye naturally turned toward the two old machines that were apt to
prove so unreliable. And no doubt Elmer was compelled to once more
debate within his mind whether it would be best for him to leave Nat and
Toby far in the lurch, depending on his single arm to protect Lil Artha
against the vandals who would ruin the great hike; or by suiting his
pace to their progress, accidents and all, and have comrades to depend
on in an emergency.

He quickly made up his mind to stick to them, for a while at least. If
things grew to be too bad, he could say good-by and go whirling off at
the rate of forty miles an hour.

Elmer was convinced that the fellows in the Fairfield car would hardly
be likely to start doing things until darkness came. They would not want
Lil Artha to see their faces, so that he could recognize them and later
on accuse them when openly denouncing the miserable game.

"Send on the news to headquarters, Number Eight," he said, as he
prepared to mount again; a movement that sent both Toby and Nat hurrying
toward their machines, anxious to coax them into a fresh start.

"Shall I tell them that you were along, sir?" asked Hen, making the
salute.

"Why, of course," said Elmer; "because they'll be anxious; you see,
there's a nasty plot afoot to kidnap Lil Artha, and make him forfeit his
place in the race, which would go to the next in line."

"And that happens to be Felix Wagner! Great governor! Now I know why you
fellows are hitting up the pace! Give 'em one for me, Toby, won't you?"
Hen bellowed after the three scouts; but they must have gone beyond
earshot, for at least no one seemed to pay the slightest attention to
his request.

It had been Elmer's first intention to make this trip on his wheel, like
the other inspectors, even though his still sore foot would have
rendered this a rather painful undertaking. Perhaps it was the knowledge
of his disability that had caused the owner of the motorcycle to offer
it to Elmer. At any rate the patrol leader was very glad to have it,
since there was little labor needed in order to cover all the ground
necessary.

Of course there was little chance for the trio of scouts to exchange
words while they were spinning along on their motorcycles. The road was
not all that could be desired, the heavy rain of the recent storm had
washed it badly in places, so that they had to keep a sharp lookout for
ruts.

Possibly there is nothing more exasperating to anyone riding a
motorcycle than to find that he is in a deep rut. For a brief time he
may be able to keep his proper balance; but presently he leans a trifle
too much one way, the heavy machine strikes the side of the rut, and as
a consequence there is a sudden dismounting; so that he feels himself
lucky if he alights anywhere but on his head.

Knowing this, and feeling that the wabbly machines of his comrades were
doubly dangerous under such conditions, Elmer always slowed down when he
struck a poor streak of road.

Even then their advance was not free from thrills. Toby was the first to
take a little header, because of thinking he could push through a rut
that somehow seemed to have drawn him as with a magnet, even when he was
fully determined that he would give it a wide berth.

He came down with quite a hard bang; and Nat, hearing the noise, and
being just a little in advance, tried to twist his head around in order
to discover what had happened to his companion in misfortune, when he,
too, turned a complete somersault and landed in the midst of a big clump
of thorny bushes that grew alongside the thoroughfare.

Of course, Elmer immediately stopped, and leaving his motorcycle, ran
back to see whether either of them could be seriously hurt. First of all
he laid hold on Nat, who was kicking his legs vigorously in the air, and
bleating like a calf. After a little pulling, and working the prisoner
of the bush to and fro, he managed to set him free.

"No bones broken, I hope, Nat?" asked Elmer, as the other started to
dance up and down, rubbing his elbows, his shins, and every part of his
anatomy he could possibly reach.

"Oh, I guess not, Elmer; but ain't I just a sight though?" groaned the
other. "My face feels like it was marked with scratches like a map; and
here's a big tear in my trousers. Got a safety pin, Elmer? Oh, dear,
won't I look terrible!"

"Don't worry over it so much, Nat. Be a scout and show your grit. Those
are only little scratches and will be gone in a few days. They're
bleeding some now, of course, and feel bad. Let me wash them with some
water from this brook, to take any poison out. How is it with you,
Toby?" and Elmer turned upon the other unfortunate who came limping
along just then, trundling his heavy motorcycle.

"Nothing much, I reckon, Elmer; got a lump about as big as a pigeon's
egg on top of my coco; but this ain't the first time by a long shot.
I'll be satisfied if only the upset didn't put my old ice wagon here out
of commission." And Toby bent over to test the sparking of his machine
after dropping the rest to the road.

It started off at a rattling pace, which fact seemed to tickle the owner
very much indeed.

"Say, blest if I don't think that tumble must have just knocked it back
into its old shape again!" he exclaimed in glee. "Haven't heard her take
the spark like that for a year and more. Hoopla! Nat, give yours a try.
Hope the same good luck fell your way."

However, such was not the case. Indeed, Nat's machine utterly balked,
and refused to do anything. Even after Elmer had spent as much as
fifteen minutes puttering over it he could not make it behave.

"I'll give it just one more try, Nat," he declared finally, "and then if
it won't work, I'm afraid Toby and myself will have to leave you here.
We've just _got_ to get along now, or it'll all be too late."

"That's right, Elmer," declared the scout, manfully. "I'm not the one to
kick on account of being sacrificed for the good of the troop. Lil Artha
must be protected against these Fairfield bullies. And if I have to hang
out here till after dark, why I'll just feel that I'm doing my little
part of the work. But I hope you make it this time, Elmer, because I'd
rather be along with you, and have an active share in the rush."

Once more did Elmer bend down over the motorcycle as it leaned against a
tree. Two minutes later there suddenly broke forth a rattle of sharp
reports and the rear wheel flew around at a dizzy pace.

"Good, good! You did it, Elmer! She's in the running again; and I won't
have to camp out here on the road till some wagon comes along to pick me
up." And filled with newborn pleasure, Nat proceeded to execute a
hornpipe right then and there.

"Well, get along with you both, then; I'll overtake you in about three
shakes of a lamb's tail," laughed Elmer, as he stepped off along the
road to where he had left his motorcycle.

Ten seconds later the others, just about to start out, heard him calling
aloud.

"He says, hurry, Nat," cried Toby, for a little bend in the road hid
their chum from them; and not waiting to test their machines any further
they were off.

They found Elmer running around, with his head bent low, as though he
might be interested in the make of the roadbed.

"What is it, Elmer?" asked Toby, coming to a stop.

"My motorcycle has gone!" was the startling reply the scout leader
made.




CHAPTER VII.

IN HOT PURSUIT.


TOBY and Nat stared, first at Elmer, and then at each other. Plainly
they could not understand what he meant by these strange words.

"Er--d'ye mean you forget just where you left it, Elmer?" asked Toby.

"I tell you it's gone, vanished completely, disappeared!" said the scout
leader, with a show of anger in his usually steady voice.

"Great goodness, Nat, he means somebody's swiped it!" ejaculated Toby,
his mouth opening in his astonishment.

Nat looked all around him, and then, not seeing a single trace of the
fine motorcycle, he began "barking," as Toby called it, after his own
peculiar way.

"Gee, whiz, now what d'ye think of that for a hummer! The old story over
again of the traveler on the highway falling among thieves. My stars,
Elmer, now who under the sun do you think would be so mean as to run off
with your machine!"

"I don't know--yet; but I'm going to find out," replied Elmer, setting
his teeth in a way he had when greatly aroused.

They saw him bend down again, and start to examine the ground near a
tree, against which he evidently had leaned the motorcycle at the time
he hurried to the rescue of his comrades in distress.

"Get next to him, would you, Toby?" remarked Nat, as he watched the
mysterious actions of the one who had been robbed.

"Why, sure, I can understand what he's doing easy enough," the other
declared.

"Then for goodness' sake put me wise, won't you please?" cried Nat.

"He's examining the tracks left by the chap who got away with his
machine while he was working with your old ice wagon!" observed Toby,
proudly.

"Well, now, I guess that's just what he is doing, sure as you're born.
And don't I just hope he gets on to him! How is it, Elmer?" as the scout
leader started to move away.

Toby and Nat followed as close to his heels as they could, considering
that he immediately moved into the woods; and they were compelled to
trundle their heavy machines along, no easy task under the best of
conditions.

"He went this way, all right. I only hope he won't think to smash the
thing when he finds we're after him," said Elmer over his shoulder.

He was keeping his head bent low, and following the trail with apparent
readiness. The lessons he had learned when on that ranch in the Canadian
Northwest were undoubtedly coming in "pat" just now; though really the
trail was so very plain that even a novice might have followed it.

"Who d'ye thing could have done it, Toby?" asked Nat, as he pushed his
motorcycle through the scrub with a desperate intention not to be left
behind.

"Well, Elmer hasn't said a thing yet; but all the same I can give a
pretty good guess," returned the other.

"Go on and do it, then, for I'm all in the dark and up a stump. Put me
wise, Toby."

"Huh, reckon you forget mighty soon!" grunted the other, who was
struggling manfully to rush his heavy wheel along and did not have any
spare breath, to tell the truth.

"Oh, slush, now I'm on!" cried Toby. "You mean them Fairfield chaps that
came out here to break up Lil Artha's great winning streak?"

"Sure!" Toby grunted again, beginning to conserve his breath when
possible.

"They flagged us, and saw a chance to put us on the blink!" exclaimed
Nat who, like Lil Artha, was more or less addicted to present-day slang,
though otherwise he was known to be a clean fellow, with no serious
faults.

"That's it!" snapped Toby, gritting his teeth as though even the thought
made him furious.

"It's a punk deal, that's what," Nat went on. "They just believe that if
Elmer's out of the running the game is in their hands. But he can have
my machine, if he wants to go ahead. If anybody can make it behave,
Elmer can."

"Or mine either," declared Toby.

Now Elmer, of course, heard all this talk, even though he seemed to be
devoting himself wholly to the business in hand. And at this juncture he
beckoned to his comrades.

"He wants us to pick up, and get even with him," declared Toby.

"Sure thing. Guess Elmer is going to take us at our word, and borrow a
mount," observed Nat, cheerfully.

Accordingly they put on an extra spurt, and managed to gain enough
ground so as to come alongside.

"I heard what you were saying, boys," Elmer immediately remarked, as
soon as he saw that they were up with him; "but you're away off in your
calculations. It isn't one of those Fairfield fellows at all who's
jumped my claim with that borrowed motorcycle!"

"W--w--what's that?" gasped Toby.

"I said that it wasn't a Fairfield fellow who ran off with my machine,"
repeated Elmer, more positively than before.

"Well, you make me feel like thirty cents," observed Nat; "now, what
under the sun would one of _our_ boys want with a motorcycle when, if he
rides on it, for even a minute, he's disqualified in the race?"

"It wasn't one of our scouts either," said Elmer.

"Then for goodness' sake tell us who it could be, Elmer!" cried Toby.

"I haven't even glimpsed him once yet, though he's only a little way
ahead of us right now," the scout leader said; "but judging from the
fact that his shoes are all broken out, I'm almost dead sure he's some
Wandering Willie."

"He means a hobo, a common tramp!" exclaimed Toby in astonishment.

"Tell me about that, will you!" cried Nat. "Just to think of a four
flusher like that making off with Elmer's motorcycle, when he needs it
the worst kind to block that nasty little game of the envious Fairfield
dubs! Oh, it's a cruel world!"

"But we're goin' to get it back, don't you forget that!" Toby
insinuated.

"You never spoke truer words, Toby," laughed Elmer; though there was
little of mirth in the sound; for the boy was tremendously aroused by
this new calamity that threatened to upset all his calculations.

"Hurry, hurry! I can go a bit faster, now that I know what's on!"
declared Toby, although his manner of gasping belied his words.

"Oh, there he is right now! Look, look, Elmer!" cried Nat.

All of them caught a glimpse of some moving object that was pushing at
top speed through the scrub ahead. Undoubtedly it was the party who had
run away with Elmer's motorcycle. They had gained on him constantly, and
were now surely overtaking the rascal.

"We're just bound to get him, fellows!" said Toby.

"That's so, Toby; it looks good to me," remarked Nat, as he strained
every muscle to keep alongside the others.

Elmer, being free to make a sprint, since he had no machine to trundle
along, suddenly left his chums in the lurch. They saw him leaping
through the low underbrush as might a deer.

"Hurrah! He'll get him!" shouted Toby.

"Twenty-three for yours, Mr. Wandering Willie!" added Nat.

"Don't I wish Elmer would just hold him till we come up," added the
other, with a threat in his manner that hardly became a scout; but then
Toby had been a boy long before this scout movement was dreamed of, and
the natural instinct is very hard to repress.

"Hey, do we drop our wheels, and make a spurt, so as to be in at the
finish?" demanded Nat.

"You can, if you want to," replied his mate; "but something tells me a
machine may come in handy yet, even if it is an old huckleberry
makeshift like mine."

"Gee, yes! I didn't think of that," Nat muttered, still clinging to his
motorcycle. "The hobo might strike the road again, you mean?"

"Yep, that's what, Nat."

"And go skeetering off on Elmer's wheel?"

"Just what I meant," replied Toby. "He's been making a sorter curve all
along, like he wanted to strike the road; I noticed that, Nat."

"So did I. Don't like the job of pushing that machine through the scrub
any too much, I reckon," Nat remarked, panting from his own exertions.

"And say, do you blame him?" Toby asked.

"Listen!" and Nat cocked his head as though he could hear better in that
position.

"What was it? Did you catch a shout for help? Perhaps Elmer's caught up
with him, Nat!"

"I thought I heard somebody call out, or laugh," Nat began, when he was
interrupted by a shout.

"Toby--Nat, hurry along with your wheels!"

"That's Elmer!" gasped Toby, as he tried to add a little more speed to
his forward progress.

"Perhaps he's got him under his knee, and is holding him for us,"
suggested Nat.

"That's silly," returned the other, immediately. "It won't hold water,
Nat. Whatever would he tell us to bring our machines, if he had the
hobo? Tell you what, I reckon he's made off along the road with Elmer's
motorcycle, that's a fact!"

"And he wants one of ours to chase him with! Oh, I wish I could fly
right now, so's to hurry!" Nat cried.

"A fine mess _you'd_ make of it, if even a fellow like me, that's up to
snuff, don't seem able to get it down pat," sneered Toby.

"I see Elmer, and he's waving his hand to us like fun!" exclaimed Nat,
without appearing to take any notice of the slur cast upon his abilities
in the line of aviation.

Elmer came bounding toward them just then, as though meaning to lend all
the assistance in his power toward getting the machine he fancied, if
there was any choice in the matter, to the road near by.

He clutched hold of Toby's motorcycle, possibly believing that its
recent regeneration might prove fairly lasting.

So they came upon the edge of the road again, after making all that half
circle through the woods and scrub.

Toby's first act was to stretch his neck, and stare along the road. A
moving object caught his eye, which he had no difficulty in making out
to be a motorcycle, upon which a ragged specimen of a tramp was seated,
and which he was working at a great rate _with his feet on the pedals_!

"He don't know beans about how to run the engine!" Toby exclaimed, with
sudden delight, as he saw this plain fact.

The road just there was as straight as a rule, for at least a couple of
miles; and the fellow had not gotten more than a quarter of a mile away.

He happened to turn his head to look back just then, while the machine
"yawed" at an alarming rate, threatening to dispose of the tramp in the
bushes. To the indignation of Toby and Nat, the latter having also
managed to reach the spot by this time, the Wandering Willie jauntily
waved a hand toward them, as though bidding them a fond adieu.

There was a sudden sputter, and a rattling volley. Then away sped Elmer,
mounted on Toby's old machine, which seemed about to redeem itself in
this momentous crisis.

"Wow! Watch his smoke, will you!" shrieked Nat.

"Now will you be good, Mr. Hobo!" cried Toby; hoping in his heart that
the pursuing machine might not take a notion to perform any of its
frequent tricks and betray its new master.

The man on the stolen wheel must have heard that rattle as of artillery
behind him, for Elmer never bothered using the hush pedal, such was his
desire to speed up and overtake the thief who was running off with his
mount.

They saw him look back over his shoulder as if in sudden alarm. Then his
legs began to work faster than they could possibly have done in ten
years, as he endeavored to pedal his stolen property at a rate of speed
that would take him beyond reach of the relentless pursuer. But like a
meteor shooting across the sky, Elmer bore down on the hobo motorcycle
thief.




CHAPTER VIII.

TWENTY-SEVEN MILES FROM HICKORY RIDGE AND HOME.


"LOOK at the silly guy, will you! Thinks he can run away from a
forty-mile-an-hour engine! I like his nerve, now!" exclaimed Nat.

"But Elmer's eating up the distance like fun!" cried Toby, dancing up
and down in his great excitement. "Think of my old machine behaving so
decent, would you! Why, she runs as smooth as grease--better than when
she was new! There! He's closing in on him now like hot cakes. Watch
what happens, Nat!"

They stood there in the road, with their eyes glued on the little comedy
that was happening not a great distance away.

The tramp knew from the loudness of those rapid-fire explosions that the
speeding motorcycle must be rapidly overhauling him. No need to turn his
head any longer to size up the situation, which in his mind was becoming
acute.

"He's going to skip out!" shrieked Nat, suddenly.

"Sure thing!" echoed Toby. "Look at him dragging his big trilbies along
the road to slow up. Hope he don't run slap into a tree though, and bust
things higher'n a kite!"

"There he goes! Hoopla!" shouted Nat.

They saw the tattered thief suddenly bring the motorcycle to a stop, or
at least what looked like it from a distance. Then he fell over on the
ground, and rolled into the bushes, as if only too anxious to get out
of the reach of the owner, before he could lay hands on him.

Elmer shut off power and applied the brake, for he quickly came to a
stop close by the spot where his machine lay.

"Chase after him, Elmer! Get him!" yelled Nat, as he and his comrade
started to hasten along the road, Nat apparently forgetting that he
might as well make use of his machine, if so be it would answer his
demand.

But it looked as though wise Elmer saw no reason why he should get mixed
up with a rough hobo, simply to satisfy his desire for revenge. He
seemed to be bending over the motorcycle, as though investigating the
extent of damages it might have sustained in being so hastily dropped on
the hard road.

"Here, what's the reason we can't get along in style?" demanded Toby.
"Hit up your old ice wagon, and I'll hitch on behind that far."

"Sure thing!" remarked Nat, as if the idea had never once occurred to
him, he was so busy thinking of how he would like to lay hands on the
thief.

After several attempts the machine decided to be good; and as it
started, Toby managed to hang on in some fashion, until presently they
arrived on the scene.

Elmer had raised his motorcycle and started the engine going, after
dropping the rest at the rear, so that the back wheel could spin in the
air.

"Seems to work all right!" declared Toby.

"Glad to say there's been no damage done, except a dent in the gas tank,
and that can be easily pounded out later on," Elmer declared, as he
heaved a sigh of relief.

"Are we going to let that hobo get off so easy; or do we chase after
him?" asked Nat, glaring around at the neighboring woods, in the depths
of which no doubt the object of his anger was snugly ensconced, watching
to see what they would do.

"No use trying to get hold of him," remarked Elmer. "Forget it, and
let's bump along the road. He just saw a chance to steal something that
he really had no use for, and couldn't hold back. It's all right now,
and no damage done. Get ready to start, fellows!"

In another minute they were speeding away, possibly much to the relief
of the concealed tramp, who had begun to fear that he had stirred up a
hornet's nest, and was likely to get stung pretty badly.

Ten minutes later, with all three machines humming merrily, they flitted
past a roadside tavern.

"See that?" called Elmer over his shoulder to Toby, who was next in
line.

"The road house, d'ye mean?" answered the other.

"Second signing station, fourteen miles, about, from Hickory Ridge,"
Elmer said.

"But you didn't make any move to stop," remarked Toby.

"No need," came the reply. "We wouldn't be apt to pick up any later news
than what Hen Condit gave us. And we want to make all the time we can.
Been enough delay already."

"But perhaps there won't be any more, from my machine anyhow, Elmer.
She's going like a greased pig. That shake-up must have been just what
the old buster needed." Toby bawled, knowing to what the other referred
when he mentioned hold-ups.

Nat was trailing along in the rear, but coming apparently with no sign
of another balk; although doubtless he lived in perpetual fear of
something new springing a surprise on him. A motorcycle, once it gets
to acting queer, can establish a reputation for opening up new avenues
of trouble second to none.

"Hey, look ahead!" called Toby, presently, after they had covered
another long distance of quite a number of miles.

Elmer, upon doing so, discovered that a couple of fellows occupied the
middle of the road, and seemed to act as though they meant to stay
there, no matter what came along.

As the motorcycle squad rushed toward them, Elmer had no great
difficulty in recognizing Landy's cousin, George Robbins, and one of the
Fairfield crowd, Angus McDowd.

They had their arms locked, and seemed on the best of terms with the
world in general, though their steps had a tottery look, as Nat
expressed it.

Finding themselves left far in the rear, these two had apparently made
up their minds not to bother about who won the great hike; but to stick
to each other, and take things as easy as they could.

Hearing the sputtering of the several machines, they looked back and
waved their hands, evidently recognizing Elmer in the lead. Then they
stepped to one side of the road so as to let the procession pass.

Elmer threw out his hand so as to warn Toby to slow up, as he meant to
do that same, and did not wish to take the chances of being run down.

"How far are we from home?" shouted both the walkers, as Elmer came
close.

"About twenty miles," he replied, for he had anticipated such a
question, and prepared himself to meet it promptly.

"Is that all?" called Angus McDowd, who looked pretty much "all in."

"What's the news; who's ahead, Elmer?" called George, as the motorcycle
passed.

"Lil Artha at last accounts, by a long lead!"

"Bully for Lil Artha!" both trampers shouted; for Angus was so tired
himself that he really cared very little who won.

"How far ahead of us, hey?" shouted George.

"Only about thirteen miles, George," answered Toby as he flitted past
with a fresh start.

"Oh, won't poor old Landy feel sore when he hears how the hope of the
Philander Smiths has gone aglimmering!" mocked Nat, as he, too, went by.

George made a quick motion with his hand as though throwing something at
his tormentor; then his care-free laugh floated after them.

About three miles farther along the road they discovered another sight.

"What's going on there?" shouted Toby, who again hung rather dangerously
close in the rear of the leader, because he wanted a chance to exchange
remarks from time to time.

"Looks like a breakdown, and that's a fact," Elmer replied.

"That's right," called Toby immediately. "It's Tom Cropsey, and he's
trying to put a plug in his tire. He's got a puncture, and that ended
his run as inspector."

The boy looked up as they drew near, and shook his head even as he
grinned.

"All in, I reckon, Elmer, can't seem to fix her!" he called, as the
scout leader flashed past.

Possibly he would have been glad if they had stopped in order to assist
him repair the obstinate break; but Elmer had other fish to fry just
then, and time was too valuable to waste in gaining a recruit who could
never keep up with them for even half a mile.

So they presently saw the last of poor Tom, marooned so far away from
home, and with night coming on apace.

Elmer knew that they might expect to overtake some of the others at any
minute now, and every time he turned a bend he looked closely to see if
there were not figures on the road ahead.

Nor was he mistaken.

A few more miles, and he saw a lone pedestrian manfully struggling
onward, with a stout stick, which he had stopped to cut, assisting him.
At first Elmer thought it was an old man hobbling along, until coming up
on the party, the other wheeled.

"Hello, Jack, old fellow! making a game push for it, eh?" called Elmer,
who had slowed down considerably, so as to give the contestant a cheery
word to encourage him in persisting.

"Wow, but I guess I'm pretty near the limit, Elmer," answered the other,
who turned out to be Jack Armitage. "How far have I come since morning,
hey?"

"About twenty-four miles," answered Elmer, as he passed.

"Gee, is that all? Thought it was near fifty!" lamented the scout, as he
waved his cane at both Toby and Nat as they went by and doubtless cast
an envious look at the machines that were carrying them over the ground
so easily, while he was completely done up, and ready to cry quits.

"Next!" shouted Nat, who was really enjoying this thing of overhauling
the various used-up walkers more than anything that had come his way for
a long time; it is always so nice to spin along on a wheel, or a
motorcycle, or in a car, and _pity_ the poor fellows who have to walk!

"Well, there he is, right beyond," said Toby over his shoulder.

"Who under the sun is it?" demanded the rider in the rear, whose view
was somewhat obstructed by his companions.

"Blest if I know; looks a little like our Ty Collins!" Toby shot back.

"It is Ty; anybody ought to recognize that old red sweater of his,"
Elmer announced; "and he's got a fine stone bruise on his foot, if that
limp means anything!"

The contestant stepped out of the road as they drew near. He stiffened
up to salute, game to the last, and chasing away the look of pain that
had been on his boyish face.

One of his shoes was held in his hand, and he had been walking along in
this way, determined not to give up until the last gasp.

"Better throw up the sponge, Ty," called Elmer, who had the authority to
order anyone out of the race who in his judgment was unfit to continue
further.

Ty's face told that he welcomed this command, as it released him from
all further responsibility, and he could retire with good grace.

"What'd I better do, Elmer?" he called out.

"Station four just ahead; stay there to-night. Some one come for you in
morning!" the scout leader shouted back.

"All right, I will. Hello! Toby, and you ditto, Nat. Who's winning? That
fast Fairfield fellow, Wagner, passed me a long time ago, going strong."

"Oh, Lil Artha is miles ahead of him!" replied Nat.

"Hurrah for the pride of Hickory Ridge troop! Bully for Lil Artha!" they
heard Jack whoop as they sped onward.

Thus one by one they were fast picking up the contestants who were
spread out along the road to Little Falls, covering many miles from the
leader to the fellow far in the rear, the Hope of the Philander Smiths.

"There's the other bicycle boy, Phil Dale!" shouted Toby a little later,
after they had passed the tavern which had been selected as the fourth
station.

"And he's near played out, too. Look at him wabble, would you! Wow, he
can't do many more miles at that rate!" Nat yelled.

Elmer gave a salute to warn the rider they were coming and wanted half
the road. As he swept past Phil called out something, but Elmer failed
to catch what he said, the others also went whooping by, no one having
thought to slow down.

And so both inspectors as well as a number of the played-out contestants
had been overhauled. They were now fast coming to the point where a
crisis would be waiting for them. Twenty-seven miles from Hickory Ridge
and evening close at hand, when the miserable plot of the Fairfield
schemers could be put into play!




CHAPTER IX.

NEARING THE CRISIS.


A SUDDEN howl arose from Nat in the rear.

Both Elmer and Toby knew what it meant. The tricky wheel of Nat had
given signs of balking again, and they must make a stop in order to coax
it to be good. Elmer seemed to have a "wheedling" way about him, both
the others had confessed, when it came to patching up the peace with a
mutinous motor. He seemed just naturally to know how to go about
smoothing out difficulties in a way that told of his being a born
mechanic, although as yet he had found but few chances to show his
skill.

So Elmer, though not without considerable reluctance, threw up his hand
as a signal that he meant to stop. Perhaps he might even have thought of
leaving Nat, and taking only Toby with him; but after the other had
stuck it out so valiantly all this while, it hardly seemed fair to
abandon him on such a slight pretext.

So they were soon busy over the refractory motor, Elmer looking into the
trouble with his customary skill.

"How many other fellows are there ahead of us?" asked Nat, who was
hovering over the one who worked, eager to lend a hand if called upon.

"Quite a bunch," replied Toby. "Let's see, there ought to be Red, Matty,
Lil Artha on our side, and from what we know about the Fairfield crowd
we've still got to reckon with Henry Cobb and Felix Wagner."

"Just leave out Cobb, boys," remarked Elmer, as he worked rapidly.

"Why?" demanded Toby.

"Oh, he's all in, for a fact!" laughed the other.

"But say, we didn't pass Cobb; unless he was lying in the bushes along
the side of the road. How d'ye know he's given up the fight, Elmer?"
questioned Toby, bent on finding out.

"I saw him sitting in that number four station, with one of his feet on
a chair, and being bound up," replied the scout leader.

"Shucks, you don't say so!" exclaimed Nat. "Whatever in the wide world
do you think can have happened to him?"

"Perhaps he's been bit by a mad dog!" suggested Toby.

"Might a' been a rattlesnake; I've heard tell about lots of the critters
being found up this way. One man used to hunt 'em just for the skins and
the rattlesnake oil he got. Some people say it's mighty fine for
rheumatism; and athletes use it a heap. Say, Elmer, what d'ye think?"
Nat went on.

"Oh, nothing like all that stuff," chuckled the other. "Henry has just
sprained his ankle, I reckon, and is getting it bound up. That
eliminates all the Fairfield contestants but one--Felix Wagner."

"And him the most dangerous of the bunch!" muttered Toby.

"How does it come on, Elmer; think you can get it fixed? Gee, I hope so,
because I'd sure hate to drop out now!" said Nat.

"It's going to be all right; just give me three minutes more, and I'll
have it in shape for a long run," came the reply.

"Oh, that sounds good to me!" declared Nat; "because I do want to be in
at the finish"; and secretly behind Elmer's back he doubled up his fist,
showed it to Toby and the two conspirators grinned and nodded, as though
they had their minds fully made up as to what they meant to do if the
chance opened.

Elmer knew what he was saying when he made that promise. By the time the
three minutes were up he handed the motorcycle over to its owner.

"There you are, Nat; give the engine a tryout," he said.

And as the other did so, with the result that the explosions started off
with a rush such as Nat had not been acquainted with of late, he gave a
shout.

"Runs bully, Elmer, you're just a wiz, when it comes to tinkering with
things. I bet you the old hippo runs like a scared dog now. Here goes,
fellows!"

He jumped for the saddle, almost missed it, and managing to climb on,
went along the road furiously, though quickly slackening his speed as
Elmer called out.

"How is it?" asked the latter, as he overtook Nat.

"Just oh be joyful, that's what!" answered Nat, who seemed tickled at
the way his rackety machine was now behaving. "Why, she answers to the
least touch, and is as spry as a young colt. I'm almost afraid she'll
take a sudden notion to run away with me yet, Elmer."

"There's Red, boys! He's still hitting up the pace; but it's only grit
that carries him on now!" observed Elmer.

Red had always been known as the possessor of a stubborn will. Although
he was dragging his feet after him when first the three on motorcycles
discovered him, no sooner did he know of their coming than he braced up
wonderfully and pretended to be as fresh as in the start.

Again were a few sentences exchanged as they drew past. But Red did not
deign to ask how far he was from home. He gave a shout upon hearing that
the long-legged Hickory Ridge scout was said to be well in the lead; as
though his one thought was to have his troop win out.

"Ambulance be along later, Red!" shouted Nat, who could not resist the
chance to get in another little dig; but Red put his hands up to his
mouth to serve as a megaphone as he yelled after them:

"Not for me; I'm able to walk back home again, if I want to,
understand!"

Now they kept a lookout for Matty, who could not be far beyond. They
discovered him bending down at a running stream where he had evidently
been slaking his thirst, and perhaps bathing his tired feet, for his
shoes were both off.

Again did Elmer give the "high sign," and the others took heed. The
three riders jumped to the ground. That clear water looked mighty
enticing; and, besides, here was the last fellow whom they might expect
to overtake, save Felix and Lil Artha; and a wide gap was believed to
exist between them.

"Come on in, fellows, the water's fine," laughed Matty, whose face
looked as if he had dipped it partly in the creek, for the dust was
washed in streaks; but his smile was just as genial as ever.

The trio soon slaked their thirst.

"Where are we at?" demanded the leader of the Beaver Patrol, who had
made a pretty good bid for the prize, considering that he was not gifted
with such long legs as the two fellows ahead.

"I think about twenty-nine miles out," Elmer returned.

"And with just two fellows ahead; but I've got a poor chance to overhaul
'em, though I don't give up yet awhile. That's all, ain't it, Elmer,
Lil Artha and that muscular Dutchman, Felix Wagner?"

"That's all," nodded Elmer. "Glad to find you so filled with pluck,
Matty; though it looks as if Lil Artha would have to carry the colors of
Hickory Ridge troop to the scout master of Little Falls."

"How does the game stand; is Felix overhauling our chum?" asked the
other, as he started to put on his shoes, making a wry face while doing
so, as if his feet might be more or less sore.

"Not that we know of; for at last accounts Lil Artha had a lead of some
three miles, and was going strong," Elmer replied.

"Then what in the mischief do you fellows look so serious about, that's
what I want to know?" demanded Matty, whose sharp eyes had read
something in their manner that told him everything was not as serene as
outward conditions would seem to imply.

"Listen, then, and I'll try to tell you as quickly as I can." And saying
this, Elmer started to relate how word had come of the detestable scheme
engineered by some of the rougher element among the Fairfield boys,
looking to rendering Lil Artha ineligible as a contestant, by either
coaxing him to ride in their auto, or if he persistently declined,
forcing him into doing so.

Matty's indignation was immediate.

"What a lot of scoundrels they are!" he declared, between his set teeth.
"If I wasn't a scout right now, d'ye know what I'd say they deserved?"

"Well, never mind," laughed Elmer; "don't commit yourself, Matty. And
now, boys, since we've refreshed ourselves, let's be moving. This is
probably the last stop we'll make up to the time we overhaul our chum
who is so gallantly carrying our colors to victory. Come along, both of
you."

Elmer had thought they could spare the few minutes needed to get a
drink, and give Matty some hints as to how things stood. The leader of
the Beaver Patrol had made such a brave fight of it, in that he had
covered nearly thirty miles of territory since morning, that really he
deserved to be told.

Fortunately both of the older machines started in decent order.
Doubtless Toby and Nat breathed sighs of relief when this fact became
evident; for they had been having so much trouble of late that they
distrusted the working capacity of the worn-out motors to rise to an
occasion.

But everything seemed going along smoothly, and once more the three sped
along, passing the fifth station, which was the same Rockledge from
whence the news had come concerning Lil Artha some two hours and more
before.

"How far d'ye think he could have gone in two hours, Elmer?" asked Toby,
who, as usual, was making the leader a pacer for his own progress, as he
hung dangerously close at the rear of Elmer's machine.

"Well, if he was fairly fresh Lil Artha might make eight miles, and
think little of it," replied the other.

"But he must be tired by now, and say he's made six, wouldn't that about
fill the bill, Elmer?"

"We'll call it six, just for fun, and let it go at that. Look out for
Felix about this time. He ought to still be half an hour behind the
leader."

"Unless the conditions have changed a whole lot, which I don't think has
happened," Toby called.

Elmer had even considered dropping off while passing through Rockledge,
just to find out when Felix entered his name and time of arrival. But on
second thought he decided that it did not matter much anyway; since it
was not the persistent work of Felix that bothered them half so much as
what the plotters meant to do.

Thirty-two miles' walk was something worth while for boys who had never
made any pretense of being skilled pedestrians; and even the slowest in
the bunch, George and Angus McDowd, need not be ashamed, after having
tramped over twenty miles since sunrise, without any previous experience
and no preparation, such as old walkers of the Weston and O'Leary type
practice before starting on a long hike.

A short time after leaving Rockledge, they believed that they must have
reached the thirty-five-mile stage.

Elmer gave his horn a little toot, that being his way of signaling to
his comrades that he had sighted something ahead.

"Is it Felix?" asked Toby, fearful lest the reply might indicate that
Lil Artha had fallen back to second in the race, and the sturdy Dutchman
beat him out.

"It isn't our chum, anyhow," Elmer answered; "because he lacks half a
foot of being as tall. Yes, it must be Felix Wagner."

"He's walking strong, Elmer!" declared Toby, anxiously.

"So is Lil Artha, you'll find," the other flung back.

"Do you think he can be far ahead still?" Toby persisted, just as though
the boy in the lead could tell everything.

"I reckon he's holding his own," answered Elmer. "When we last heard he
was half an hour to the good. Then we'll likely run across him a few
miles farther on."

"Say, it ain't far from dusk now, Elmer!" sang out Nat from the rear.

"Oh, we know that easy enough," called Toby. "Just you keep your machine
in good temper, Nat, and everything'll be lovely, with the goose hanging
high."

So they flew past the Fairfield walker in rapid style.

After that little exchange of opinions the trio relapsed into silence
for a brief time. The motors kept humming away as though out for
business, and the regular music that his machine was giving forth seemed
especially pleasing to Nat. Why, he was that delighted he could not bear
to hush matters in the least by using the muffler! Who cared for the
noise anyway; this was no crowded town for the police to interfere.

And now Elmer began to grow anxious. Felix had waved his hand to them in
passing, and they had answered in a friendly way, Felix was not supposed
to know anything about the mean plan on foot to further his interests at
the expense of the one whose fine work entitled him thus far to the
lead.

How would they find Lil Artha? Was the pride of the khaki troop holding
out all right, or would they discover that he showed signs of weakening
when that sturdy and persistent Dutchman in the rear would soon pass him
by?




CHAPTER X.

FOUND AT LAST.


ELMER was thinking about the car that had started from Fairfield an hour
before Toby and Nat learned about the scheme to waylay the leader in the
great hike, in case he proved to be a representative of Hickory Ridge,
and prevent him from carrying out his intentions not to ride a foot of
the way to Little Falls.

It could have easily overtaken Lil Artha long before this. Possibly the
four reckless young fellows in the car may have gone on ahead, to pick
out a favorable place for the ambush, from which they meant to pounce on
the walking Lil Artha and play their mean game.

He was looking on either side of the road as he went, as though the
thought had come to him that perhaps he might discover the car in
hiding; the plotters having decided to wait until dark before overtaking
the leader.

Then another idea flashed across Elmer's mind, and he no longer bothered
looking either to the right or the left. Instead his eyes sought the
road in front of his motorcycle.

It was now beginning to grow a trifle like twilight. The glowing sun had
sunk in the west, and left a legacy of red and gold to paint a few
fleecy clouds that hovered there in the heavens.

So it was not as easy as one might wish, to discover signs on the road,
especially when going at the pace they held. But here and there the
conditions became a little more favorable. Perhaps it was because the
trees were farther back, allowing more of that glow from the west to
reach them; or else the shading branches had prevented the sun from
drying the mud entirely, so that such a broad mark as that made by a
poorly inflated automobile tire might be detected.

And this was just what Elmer was looking for. He found it presently,
too; and was even able to tell that the car had been going at a pretty
good clip in the same direction in which they were even then headed.
This he did by noting that the mud had been splashed _forward_, so that
it struck trees ahead of where it had formerly rested on the roadbed.
And the distance it had been thrown was proof of considerable speed on
the part of the passing car.

So Elmer constantly found his previous experience in following a trail
of considerable benefit when filling the position of a scout leader.
Little things that others would have neglected to notice, or which, if
seen, might be looked upon as mere nothings, assumed an importance in
his eyes just as they would to an Indian born to reading signs when
following a trail in forest or on the desert.

There was no especial need of shouting all this out for the information
of the two fellows following after him. They were quite satisfied to
leave the arrangement of things in his hands. All Toby and Nat wanted
was a chance to have a say in the wind-up; and if the opportunity arose,
to put in a good lick for Hickory Ridge.

All the while Elmer was trying to figure distances. He had taken note of
the cyclometer at the time he passed Felix Wagner. It stood at just
thirty-five miles then. And if, as they suspected, Lil Artha, the
gallant Hickory Ridge representative, was some three or four miles ahead
of his closest rival, it was now about time they were sighting the
long-legged boy pedestrian.

Indeed, unless they soon came upon him, Elmer would begin to worry, lest
those reckless blades in the Fairfield car had declined to wait for
darkness to come in order to hide their actions, and had already carried
their plan into execution.

It was therefore with a purpose that Elmer shaded his speed down until
they were not moving along much more than twice as fast as a walker
would go.

"Keep tabs on the road to the left, boys, as we go," he called back.

"What for?" demanded Toby, eager to do whatever the leader wished, and
yet not able to see for himself.

"Notice any signs that might stand for a struggle," Elmer went on.

"Good gracious! Elmer, do you think they've jumped Lil Artha already?"
demanded Toby; and from the rear Nat called out:

"Didn't you say you thought they'd hold over till it got dark enough so
he couldn't recognize 'em, Elmer?"

"That's right, I did; and I still believe so," replied the leader,
confidently. "When I ask you to help me look for any signs of a
free-for-all scrap, I don't believe we'll find such a thing; but I'm
just insuring the correctness of my ideas."

"Oh, that's it, eh?" said Toby; though from the manner in which he
uttered the words it could be plainly seen that he failed to fully grasp
Elmer's true meaning.

But with three pairs of young eyes on the watch, it was not very likely
that anything in the nature of marks indicating a scrimmage would
escape. A lot of boys engaged in a wrestling match would be apt to leave
many traces on the road; for knowing Lil Artha as they did, the three
chums felt sure he could not be hauled into that Fairfield auto without
a desperate resistance.

Once Nat sang out something that sounded as though he had made a
discovery; and instantly Elmer gave the signal for a stop. With his
heart beating like a trip hammer he dropped his machine and hurried
back.

"Where is it, Nat?" he asked, eagerly, ready to attempt the reading of
such signs as might be found on the dirt of the road.

Nat's eyes opened wide.

"Where's what?" he asked, as if astonished.

"Didn't you sing out that you'd seen something that ought to be
investigated?" asked Elmer.

"Why, not that I know of," replied Nat, seeming rather confused.

"But you did call out something?" went on the other, hardly knowing
whether to feel provoked or to laugh.

"Sure I did; but it was only to tell you I was feeling as empty as a
sugar barrel that's been scraped clean. When do we get a snack, I'd like
to know?" Nat replied, rubbing the pit of his stomach as if to indicate
its state of emptiness.

"Well, if that ain't the worst cheek I ever struck," growled Toby; "to
stop us just when my machine had got into its best stride, and was
humming most beautifully!"

"Oh, come off your perch!" cried Nat. "I didn't stop you--never dreamed
of such a thing. It was an accident, that's all."

"Never mind," remarked Elmer, as he prepared to mount again. "Not much
time lost, and I've made sure that Lil Artha has gone along here, _with
the car in front of him_!"

"What's that?" asked Toby, hardly understanding.

"Why, I've seen a place where our chum's footprint is marked _in the
tread_ the automobile tire made in the half-hard mud. That tells as
plain as print the car must have passed him back here a little; for if
he was not coming _after_ it he could not have stepped in the trail left
by the tire," Elmer went on, calmly.

"Oh, yes, I see now what you mean, Elmer; and as sure as you live it's a
mighty clever idea. Takes you to think up all those things. That's what
you learned when you were out there on the plains, didn't you?" Toby
remarked.

"Of course," was all the scout leader replied; but he could not help
thinking that in the case of some fellows it would be necessary for them
to have about fifty years' experience out West before they could grasp
the true meaning of clews and trails and such things.

"Is there any need now for us to look out, and try to find traces of a
scrap?" asked Nat, as he balanced his machine and prepared to start.

"You might as well keep it up," came the answer.

"But if those chaps have gone ahead, what's the use?" demanded Nat.

"Because, don't you see," put in Toby, anxious to air his knowledge,
"what's going to hinder them lying in wait, and jumping out on Lil
Artha. Shall we keep tabs of the left side as before, Elmer?"

"The left--yes; but I imagine we're going to come upon our chum mighty
soon now. That track was fresh, and I've an idea it wasn't made more
than ten minutes ago, at the most fifteen."

Both the other lads looked admiringly at the one who was able so
confidently to say such a positive thing. They could not imagine how it
was done; and as their glances met they shook their heads, as though
condoling with each other on their mutual ignorance.

Then pop-pop-pop, and they were all off in a line, with Nat, as usual
bringing up the rear, and Elmer in the van.

Ahead of them, about half a mile away, there seemed to be some sort of a
bend; although the shadows played around the spot so densely that even
the sharp eyesight of Elmer failed to make sure just what sort of a
curve the road took there.

He had what he called a "hunch" that once around this they would be apt
to sight the one in whose fortunes they were so vitally interested. So
away they tore, letting the engines out for all they were worth; and
Nat, as before, utterly ignoring the fact that he had a muffler
connected with his metal steed.

And as Elmer whirled around the curve he looked eagerly ahead. At first
he saw nothing save a long stretch of road that seemed to mellow as it
dropped a little in the distance. Was it possible that Lil Artha could
have passed beyond the extreme limit of observation? If so, then the
deduction he had made as to the length of time elapsing since that
footprint was made could not have been the true one.

Ah, what was that moving there under the trees about half a mile ahead,
and just before the road took its slight downward pitch? Surely he had
seen something rise and fall with regularity; and it could hardly be a
branch.

The object caught his eye again. It was red, and Elmer suddenly
remembered that Lil Artha always made it a point to carry a couple of
big red bandana handkerchiefs along with him when about to indulge in
any game, whether baseball, football or a fishing excursion that
entailed a long walk.

Yes, surely that must be their comrade, who, hearing the familiar
explosion of the motorcycle engines, and possibly guessing that some of
the Hickory Ridge boys were following on his trail, had stepped aside to
let them pass. And that waving of the red flag was not intended as a
signal of warning, but simply Lil Artha's method of greeting his mates
as they flew by.

He could see the tall figure plainly now, and even note how he carried
his khaki jacket over his left arm, as the evening was anything but
cool.

And Elmer felt a thrill of satisfaction as he realized that after all
their troubles on the way they had finally come to the point where they
were about to join forces with the gallant fellow who was on his
thirty-sixth mile and still set upon arriving at Little Falls long
before dawn closed the contest.

Lil Artha stood at attention. He had recognized in the leading figure
the assistant scout master of the troop, and, like a good scout,
believed in paying him the respect due his office. Under ordinary
circumstances they were chums and ready to indulge in any sort of
rough-and-tumble boyish wrestle, but when on duty it must always be a
different thing.

So, as his hand came up in the regular scout salute, Lil Artha was
surprised to see that the other was bringing his motorcycle to a slow
down, as were also those in the rear, whom he now recognized as Toby and
Nat.

Apparently, then, they intended to stop and speak with him, perhaps with
the idea of giving him fresh courage to plod along over the ten miles or
so that still remained between himself and his destination.

Nothing averse to having a little chat with his chums as he walked
along, the tall scout stepped out from under the overshadowing branches
of the tree.

"Hello, fellows!" he remarked. "Say, this is mighty nice in you, hunting
me up just to say howdy and wish me luck. What's the news back along the
line?"

"All pins down in this alley but one other besides you, Lil Artha," said
Toby, quickly.

"And I bet you I know who that chap is--he comes from Fairfield and his
name is Felix Wagner. How'd I get on to that? Why, what's the use of
telephones if you don't use 'em? I called up and found out, you see. But
don't you worry one minute. Why, I ain't near played out. Fact is,
fellows, I'm getting my second wind, and right now I'm good for another
thirty without stopping."

"Gee, you are a wonder, all right!" exclaimed Nat, admiringly.

"But listen, Lil Artha," said Elmer as they walked on in company, those
who had motorcycles trundling them along; "we've followed you all the
way from Hickory Ridge, which we left at four to-day, just to warn you
that you're in danger of being kidnaped!"

"What!" exclaimed the tall scout, evidently astounded. "Say that again,
won't you, Elmer? Me kidnaped! Say, are you joshing me now or what? Open
up and tell me."




CHAPTER XI.

THE HOWL OF THE WOLF SIGNAL.


"WELL, I like that, now!" burst out Toby. "He thinks we've run all the
way from good old Hickory Ridge, thirty-five miles away and more, just
to hand him a string."

"And me taking all the dreadful chances of breaking my neck with this
cranky machine that's got into its second childhood!" echoed Nat,
indignantly.

Elmer paid no attention to these side remarks. He could easily
understand just how Lil Artha looked at things. Not having the slightest
suspicion concerning any crooked work in connection with the great hike,
he could not comprehend what was meant by "kidnaping" him.

"Just what we're here for, old fellow," he remarked. "In the first
place, perhaps you know it, and again you may not; but Mr. Garrabrant
sent these two good scouts over to Fairfield on their motorcycles to
take notes of the start made by the three fellows who meant to compete
with us in this event."

"Yes, I knew about that," muttered Lil Artha.

"All right," Elmer continued. "They performed their duties, and then,
according to orders, hung around to find out whether there might be any
talk about some of those famous tricks that used to be played when Matt
Tubbs was running things with a high hand over there."

"But hasn't Matt turned over a new leaf; did Mr. Garrabrant expect that
it was all a make believe with him?" asked the other, quickly.

"No," said the scout leader; "so far as we can tell, Matt is in dead
earnest about doing the right thing from now on. I reckon he'd be as mad
as hops if he heard what some of his old mates have arranged."

"Well, hurry on and tell me, please, Elmer; I'm as curious as any old
woman you ever ran across," and Lil Artha laughed as he said this.

"Late in the afternoon they happened to overhear a talk between two
Fairfield boys, and then and there learned about the scheme. It seems
that four fellows in a car had already been gone an hour. They were to
run up to the head of the line, and find out just how things lay. If a
Fairfield competitor was running in the lead, of course nothing would
happen; but in case it proved to be a Hickory Ridge scout _they had
their orders_."

"But see here, Elmer, wouldn't that knock them out of the organization.
The rules of the scouts wouldn't stand for such an outrage," protested
Lil Artha.

"Hold on, Lil Artha," interrupted Elmer. "You don't seem to get on to
the real facts. Nobody said a word about any scouts being connected with
this thing."

"Outsiders, then, you mean, Elmer?"

"Yes, some of the crowd that used to run with Matt Tubbs when he was the
terror of the county. You know they broke with him at the time he saw a
great light. Some of the best in the bunch followed him into the
Fairfield troop. Others laughed at the idea of turning over a new leaf.
And they say there's a new bully cropped up in Fairfield, a fellow who
used to sneeze in the old days every time Matt took snuff."

"Yes," said Lil Artha, "I know--Eddie Johnston; and a bad egg he is,
too."

"Well," went on Elmer; "he's engineering this deal. The idea is that
these four fellows will try to coax you to enter their ear for a lift,
promising that nobody will ever hear about it, you see."

"But they ought to know I'd laugh at 'em. I'm good for the rest of the
hike, and could put on fresh speed if I sighted any feller coming along
to bother me," the tall scout declared.

"Well, in that case they had orders to jump you, get you in the car by
force, and carry you off, to drop you ten miles away, perhaps at Little
Falls. In that way, you see, Lil Artha, you would be eliminated from the
game, because you had _entered a vehicle_, which is against the rules.
And the second one in the race would win. That must be Felix Wagner."

"Does he know about this?" demanded the excited scout, frowning.

"Of course," answered Elmer, "we don't feel sure about it; but the
chances are he doesn't. No fellow who has his heart in the true
principles the scout movement stands for, could take a hand in such a
nasty game. And I'm hoping that if Felix learned what has been done he'd
be the very first to declare that he wouldn't accept a tainted title!"

"Good for you, Elmer! I don't know Felix very well myself, but I want to
think of him in that way, because he's a fellow scout. But look here. I
guess I saw the bunch you speak of pass me by only a little while back."

"Yes, I knew they had gone on ahead, because I saw that in several
places your footprint was plainly marked in the tread of the auto tire
in the mud," said the scout leader, quietly.

"Well, I declare now, if you don't beat anything in finding out them
tricks!" remarked Lil Artha, who frequently forgot there was such a
thing as grammar in the wide world. "Nobody else'd think of that way.
The rest of us have got heaps to learn. But I only saw two fellers in
the car, Elmer."

"Oh, well, perhaps the others were hiding low down for a purpose,"
returned the one who observed things closely and figured out results.
"If they all showed themselves you would be apt to know them later when
they started in with their rough-house business."

"Then what d'ye think they mean to do?" asked the tall scout, anxiously;
at the same time Toby and Nat noticed that his hands were doubling up
into fists, as if the old spirit of self-defense had begun to run riot
within him.

"They've gone down the road a few miles to some place that looks good to
them. Then, I reckon, the bunch will pile out and hide till you come
along. And while they're about it, they may disguise their faces in some
way with handkerchiefs. When fellows are in for something that won't
bear the light of day, they nearly always do that, don't you know, Lil
Artha?"

"Sure I do," nodded the tall scout, promptly. "More'n a few times I've
done the same myself, and so has Toby here. But all the same it's a mean
dodge to try and cheat me out of my honest dues. What're we goin' to do
about it, Elmer?"

"It stands to reason that we don't mean to let the game go through,"
replied the one addressed, frowning. "I'm as much opposed to violence as
any fellow could be; but there may come times when even the scout is
justified in using his fists. Mr. Garrabrant says so; and if he was
here, even if he is a man of peace, he'd say the same."

"That's right Elmer; I've heard him say that myself, and he'd laugh
right out when he declared that he was a man of peace, and that he was
bound to have peace even if he had to fight to get it," chuckled Toby.

"All right," snapped Elmer. "We must remember that we're up against a
condition that can only be met by standing up for our rights. If those
four rascals from Fairfield tried to push Lil Artha into their car
against his will, he'd be justified in kicking and striking out in
defense of his liberty, wouldn't he, scout law or not? And on the same
ground, we, as his comrades, have the right to defend him."

"And by ginger we will!" burst out Toby, triumphantly.

"Make your mind easy on that, Lil Artha," declared Nat; "we haven't run
all the way from Hickory Ridge to see our chum badly treated without
putting in a few good licks for him. Gee, it will seem like old times!
My style is getting rusty, and will need some sandpapering, I guess."

"Of course, talk won't amount to a row of pins," said Elmer.

"Not with that kind of skunks it won't," observed Lil Artha.

"As Mr. Garrabrant isn't here, and I stand in his place, I'll have to
try and do what I think he'd commend," Elmer went on.

"About that peace racket, even if you have to fight to get it, eh?"
laughed Nat.

"Wait and see," replied the scout leader, nodding his head, and giving
the other a significant, look that made Nat's heart glad; for, like Red
Huggins, Nat had always had something of a reputation as a fighter, and
found it most difficult to repress this pugnacious spirit after he
joined the scouts.

"Lay out the programme, Elmer, won't you, please?" begged Lil Artha.

"Yes, tell us just what each fellow must do," added Toby.

"Well, I've been thinking it over as we came along," remarked the one to
whom these appeals were addressed; "and this is the plan I settled on as
promising the best results. In the first place, as these chaps want
darkness before they show their hand, so that Lil Artha won't be apt to
recognize them, the chances are they've gone several miles farther on
before running the car in among the trees at a likely spot. Do you agree
on that, boys?"

"Sounds good to me, Elmer; please go on and roll your hoop," said Nat.

"Beats all how you can hit things so close," remarked Toby; "because,
now that you've mentioned it, I c'n see how they'd be apt to do just
that very thing."

"I'm agreein' with the rest, so keep moving, Elmer," Lil Artha observed,
deeply interested in the results, as he had a right to be.

"Well, then, suppose now we ride on behind Lil Artha for another mile.
Then he can hold up when I give a little whistle, or he hears the faint
howl of a wolf in the distance. The three of us will then proceed to
hide our motorcycles somewhere in the woods, marking the place at the
roadside so we can find 'em again easy later on to-night. After that
we'll haul upon our chum, and keep a little distance behind him as he
tramps on toward Little Falls."

"Bully idea!" declared the object of all this attention, shaking the
hand of the one who had suggested it. "And a feller don't have to have
more'n two eyes, with a mite of common sense back of 'em, to know
what's goin' to happen when the Fairfield bullies jump out on me."

"Whack! whack! that's two down; one with the right, and t'other with the
left duke, leaving only two for you three boys," declared Nat, making a
violent lunge in either direction, as though getting in trim after these
months of idleness, when following the mild paths of peace.

Toby laughed.

"Say, what d'ye suppose we'll be doing all that while?" he demanded.
"Don't be so greedy, Nathan. It's one apiece all around. Nothin' could
be fairer than that, and I put it up to Elmer here. Who wants to get
cheated out of his share, tell me that!"

"I reckon that ought to be understood in the beginning," remarked Elmer,
dryly. "Get this notion out of your heads, fellows. All we want is to
protect Lil Artha. If talking would do it I'd say leave it to me
entirely; but we all know it needs something stronger. So let each
fellow try to capture one of the bunch in ambush and hold him. Perhaps
they'll skedaddle as soon as they see us coming, and the job will be
done without one blow."

"But if they do resist when we're trying to defend our chum, what then?"
asked Nat, with the most agonizing appeal in his voice, as though he saw
his dearest hopes fading, fading gradually away.

"Oh, that goes without saying," chuckled Elmer. "I don't think there's
any real need of my giving you fellows orders along that line, because
you know what the only remedy is. Only, please don't forget for one
minute that you are scouts, and as such should hold your hand the
instant the white flag goes up."

"Sure we will, Elmer, if we see it!" chuckled Nat. "You make me happy
again. Gee! I was afraid you might say that under no circumstances was
a poor fellow allowed to defend himself--that, like a lot of old women,
all we could do was to grab an enemy and hold on, no matter how he
scratched and bit and gouged. It's all right. We've got our orders,
fellows. Nuff said."

All this time they had been walking at a rather stiff pace along the
road that led in the direction of Little Falls, distant something like
nine miles. When Lil Artha had said that he believed he was in
possession of his second wind, he evidently knew what he was talking
about. At least the others were hard pushed to keep up with the
long-legged contestant, hampered as they were by their heavy machines,
which had to be trundled along with considerable effort.

"Fall back and mount, fellows," said Elmer; "and you, Lil Artha, keep
listening for the signal to wait for us. Only a mile do we dare keep
going; to get closer to the place of ambush might betray us, as they
would hear the explosions from one of these machines, the muffler of
which never works decently. Get that?"

"It's as plain as the nose on my face, and nobody can miss that,"
replied the other, as he started off along the road.

Elmer cautioned his comrades to make as little racket as possible, and
presently they followed on their motorcycles.

About ten minutes later a low, weird sound floated through the air. To
most persons it would have meant that some farmer's watchdog was uneasy,
and baying at the stars; but Lil Artha knew better.

It was intended for the howl of the wolf, the sign of his patrol!




CHAPTER XII.

THE AMBUSH.


"I SEE him, Elmer," whispered Toby.

"Couldn't be anybody else," chuckled Nat, "because Lil Artha is as tall
as a house, you know."

The contestant representing the Hickory Ridge scouts was standing there
in the middle of the road, waiting for them to come up.

"Is it time, Elmer?" he asked, anxiously, as the other three joined him.

The gloaming was about them; indeed, since the heavens were beginning to
be overshadowed by clouds, the dusk had already commenced to settle,
earlier than usual in the end of August.

It had been a pretty fair day, but there was no telling what the night
might bring forth; and Lil Artha, wisely looking ahead to a possible
thunder-storm about midnight, was determined to complete his long hike
as early as possible.

"Yes," replied the leader of the Wolf Patrol, quietly. "We're going to
hide our machines somewhere about here, where we can find them when we
need them a little later."

"And you want me to hold up till you're ready?" asked Lil Artha.

"That's the programme," came the reply. "You see, we expect that the
four hold-up fellows must be hidden only a little farther along; and we
want to have our part of the game fixed. Just sit down here, Lil Artha,
and we'll be back again in a jiffy."

"Well, if it's all the same to you, Elmer, I think I'll keep on
standing," replied the tall boy, with a chuckle.

"Oh, all right," replied Elmer; "you're the doctor, and ought to know
what's best for your own case. Just wait for us here. Come along,
fellows, and bring your motorcycles with you."

Of course there was no mystery about the refusal of Lil Artha to sit
down. He knew from past experiences how difficult it is to get in
working order again at such a stage in a long hike should he give way to
the temptation and drop upon the ground. It was better to keep moving,
and not allow any of his muscles to get stiffened.

Following Elmer, the others pushed into the woods on the right, where
the scout leader seemed to think the conditions looked best for the
hiding of the three machines.

It was not a hard task to secrete them in the bushes.

"Hope it don't rain before we come back again," remarked Toby, as he
came out from the thicket where he had placed his motorcycle as
carefully as though it were a brand-new one; for on account of its
recent fairly decent performances the boy began to feel a return of his
former affection for the wheel.

"We'll have to take the chances on that," replied Elmer. "These clouds
may not stand for anything, after all."

"Often tries a big bluff like that," remarked Nat; "so we ain't going to
worry about it. Besides, if the little circus is soon over, we can come
here to get the bunch before long."

"Back to the road then, fellows," Toby observed, leading off with
confidence.

A minute later Nat broke out again:

"Say, what d'ye know about this?" he remarked. "Don't seem a bit
familiar to me along here. What're you laughing at, Elmer? Has Toby led
us the wrong way?"

"Rats!" exclaimed that worthy, bristling up in indignation. "Don't you
suppose I know what I'm about? Of course this is the right way to the
road, ain't it, Elmer?"

"You might get there, if you kept on long enough!" admitted the other.

"But how far would we have to go?" demanded the incredulous Nat.

"Oh, about twenty-five thousand miles, more or less," chuckled Elmer.

"Gee, he's turned right around and is heading _away_ from the road,
that's what," declared Nat, laughing softly. "A nice guide you'd be,
Toby, old chum. Think of us floundering deeper and deeper into these
blessed old woods, when every minute is worth a heap to us right now!"

"But what did you let me do it for, Elmer?" complained the culprit.

"Well, you started off as if you wanted to show us what you know about
woodcraft; and I thought the chance to open your eyes a little too good
to be lost," Elmer replied.

"But we've wasted time by it," declared Toby, feeling disheartened.

"Only a minute or two, and that doesn't count much beside the lesson it
may be to a couple of scouts I know," said Elmer.

"Tell us just how you know which way the road lies," said Nat.

"Oh, that is as easy as falling off a log," came the crushing reply. "I
just kept my eyes about me when we were coming in, and noted that we
were moving due east at the time, with the breeze exactly on our right,
and you remember it was coming out of the south a bit ago. If it had
been daylight I'd have known the points of the compass from the
direction of the sun; or, that failing, by the moss that nearly always
grows on the north side of the trunks of forest trees. There are many
ways for a wide-awake boy to find out these things; but only when he
keeps his wits about him _all_ the time, and his eyes and ears open."

"I guess you're right, Elmer," grunted Toby. "Time I woke up and began
to do some tall thinking, if ever I'm going to get out of the greenhorn
class."

While the three were talking after this fashion, in low, cautious tones,
Elmer had been leading the way in a confident fashion through the gloomy
woods.

Both the others were now more than a little curious to ascertain just
how near the point where they had left Lil Artha their guide would fetch
up. So far as they themselves were concerned it was by this time all a
confused jumble. If asked to point out the proper direction neither
could have done better than shut his eyes and thrust out a hand at
random; for they were very much turned around, now that the clouds had
rendered it impossible for them to even decide which direction was west.

"Well, I declare!" ejaculated Toby, presently, "here's the bally old
road, as sure as you're born, Nat!"

"Elmer!" said a low voice, as some object moved near by.

"And better still, here's Lil Artha!" declared Nat, lost in wonder as to
how Elmer could have done such a remarkable stunt, and with hardly an
effort, too.

"Sure," came in the same low tone. "Where else should he be but here
just where you left him? But say, Elmer, you were gone a long time."

"Not a bit over five or six minutes," replied the leader, immediately;
"and even then, we've had quite a lesson in woodcraft. Besides, Felix is
half an hour behind, and there's little danger of his catching up, yet
awhile."

"Do we start on again now?" asked Nat, who was opening and shutting his
hands nervously in a way that might have excited the scout leader's
suspicions had he been able to notice the movement.

"Yes, we're going to set the stage now for the last little scene in this
act of the drama entitled the Great Hike Conspiracy," chuckled Elmer.

"That sounds good to me," murmured Nat.

"Go on, Elmer, and tell us just what you want us all to do," urged Lil
Artha.

"First of all, you are to start on again, just as before, Lil Artha."

"Yes, I get that all right," replied the tall lad.

"And the rest of us will shadow you," Elmer continued.

"I don't quite understand what you mean, Elmer; will you keep a certain
distance behind me all the time?" Lil Artha asked.

"You can make up your mind that we'll be close enough every minute to
hear you whistle steadily as you trudge along," came the reassuring
reply.

"And that means you'll get on to what they say to me when they show
their hand: eh, Elmer?"

"Just what it does, Lil Artha," the leader answered.

"Fact is, I want to hear that little dialogue or conversation the worst
way. Because, you see, we may have to repeat this story a few times
later on, and we'd like to be able to have it all down pat."

"Well, what happens then after they show their teeth?" questioned the
tall boy.

"You make up your mind which one of the lot you like best, and hang on
to him with tooth and nail, as if you thought he was your long-lost
brother. Get that, Lil Artha?" Elmer continued.

"I understand," came the reply. "You want me to count for one hold-up,
so as to leave the other three to you fellows?"

"Well, you wouldn't be greedy, would you, and cheat us out of all the
fun, after we've come all this long way, and risked breaking out necks
time and time again?" remarked Nat, reproachfully.

"He understands, Nat," remarked Elmer, pouring oil on the troubled
waters as he frequently did when little frictions arose in the khaki
troop. "And there's no need of wasting any more time. Be off, Lil Artha,
and success to you."

"Same here, fellows," came the merry reply; "and more power to your
elbow, Nat"; from which last remark it was very evident that Lil Artha
knew full well the impulsive character of the Scott boy, and how his
desire to engage in "scraps" had not as yet been wholly tamed down by
his becoming a scout in good standing.

Nat's father was the principal of the public schools in Hickory Ridge;
and from the time that Nat started to attend he had possibly given the
professor as much trouble as any lad in the whole town. Not that Nat was
naturally bad, but his quick temper, and readiness to use his fists to
settle argument, had drawn him into innumerable scrapes.

Accordingly, Lil Artha once more started along the darkening road,
swinging out with those long strides which his length made possible.

Elmer calculated to a nicety just how far they ought to allow their chum
to get before starting to follow. It was important that they should be
concealed from the eyes of the four in ambush; and yet, on the other
hand, he did not want to drop back to such a distance that they might be
cheated out of hearing what happened when the surprise came.

In order to maintain a certain distance in the rear he had instructed
the one ahead to keep up a steady whistle. Lil Artha was known to be a
whistler, and often amused his chums by his accomplishment in this line.
It was a gift, such as an occasional boy finds himself in possession of.
And more than once had Elmer told his friend that he would make a good
woodsman if only he turned his talent toward imitating the various clear
sweet notes of wild birds.

They could hear him easily now, and Elmer fixed the sound in his mind.
As he had cautioned Lil Artha to keep up a steady flow, it would become
apparent that they were either diminishing the distance or adding to it,
if that whistle became louder or softer in volume.

Five minutes passed.

Elmer caught a big sigh close beside him, which he knew must proceed
from the impetuous Nat. Doubtless every sixty seconds that dragged by
seemed like an age to the Scott boy; who fancied that after all their
trouble perhaps they were going to be cheated out of their fun, and that
the plotters had weakened at the last round.

Not so Elmer, who estimated things at their true value, and not by the
rapid pulsations of an excited heart.

"Cheer up, Nat," he whispered in the ear of the other; "it's going to
come pretty soon now."

"Oh, I hope so!" sighed the one who loved action above all things.

"He's stopped whistling, Elmer!" whispered Toby, excitedly.

"No, there he starts again," replied the leader, who in truth suspected
what the little break in Lil Artha's melody might signify.

Possibly he had caught some suspicious rustling sound, and unconsciously
held his breath for just five seconds in order to listen better.

Was it a false alarm, or would the music begin immediately? Warned by
this suggestive hint, Elmer waited, fully expecting to hear a loud voice
suddenly break forth from some point ahead. Since this was not "Out
West" where lawless desperadoes held sway, it would hardly come in a
hoarse demand to "throw up your hands," but in some milder fashion.

And presently Elmer realized that his guess had hit the mark. The
whistle suddenly ceased. Then they heard a voice call out in the most
familiar way possible:

"Hello, there, Lil Artha! Hold up a bit, won't you?"




CHAPTER XIII.

FRIENDS IN TIME OF NEED.


A NERVOUS hand gripped the sleeve of Elmer's jacket.

Nat was trembling with suspense; and doubtless Toby, on the other hand,
was almost as badly off. Elmer had come to a halt as the sound of that
voice reached them; but it was for only a fraction of a minute. He knew
that it was policy on their part to creep up, foot by foot; because,
when Lil Artha wanted help he would need it in a hurry. If they were too
far away perhaps those energetic Fairfield plotters might be able to
throw the tall lad into the car, and start going; when, as Nat might
have expressed it, "the fat would be in the fire."

"Why, hello! Who's that?" they heard Lil Artha reply, in the most
natural tone any fellow could display.

Of course he ought to show surprise at being suddenly hailed from the
bushes so far away from home, and by some one familiar with his name.

Evidently the quartette at that came out of hiding and surrounded the
tall lad; for his next exclamation seemed to announce this fact.

"Four of you, hey? Well, this is nice of you, boys, to come all this way
just to give me a good word of cheer!" he remarked.

"Hold up, don't be in such a hurry to get along, Lil Artha," said one
who seemed to be the leader of the lot.

"But how do I know how close some other fellow may be on my heels!"
remarked the tall lad; although he evidently did not make any further
attempt to brush past them.

"Say, that's just it!" declared the unknown, who, no doubt, had his hat
pulled down over his face, and depended on this, as well as the
gathering gloom of approaching night, to conceal his identity. "There is
a Fairfield fellow hot on your trail, and he's bound to beat you out,
because he's got his second wind."

"Yes," spoke up another, quickly, chuckling at the same time; "that's
what we're bothered about, Lil Artha. We just can't bear the idea of you
being beat to a frazzle by Felix Wagner."

"But I don't mean to be, you know, boys," expostulated the tall boy.
"Little Falls ain't mor'n nine miles ahead; and if Felix has got his
second wind, I'm in the same boat myself. Count on me to get there ahead
of him, fellows!"

"But you might have an accident, stub your toe or something like that,"
declared the leader of the opposition.

"So might Felix," remarked Lil Artha, cheerfully.

"Yes, that's so," came the reply; "but you don't know the luck of that
Dutchman. Everything comes his way, Lil Artha."

"Well, this hike won't, bet you a cookey!" remarked the other,
stubbornly.

"He's right behind you, and coming like a house afire."

"Then what in the dickens are you keeping me waiting here for?" demanded
Lil Artha, indignantly.

"I'll tell you," replied the leader of the four, mysteriously.

"Hurry up, then, and let me go ahead," ordered the tall lad.

"We've been talking it over, you see," began the other.

"It's plain enough that talking is something in your trade," commented
Lil Artha, bitterly; and Elmer heard Toby alongside him chuckle softly,
as though he might be enjoying these caustic remarks of their tall chum
mightily.

"And we've come to a conclusion, Lil Artha," went on the other, as
though he was not to be moved by any thrusts from the tongue of the
contestant.

"All right. Glad you've come to something. Hurry up and spit it out, and
then give me a clear road, won't you?" the one who was being held up
remarked, sharply.

"The honor of good old Hickory Ridge is at stake," continued the
unknown, in a solemn tone that suggested graveyards and all that sort of
thing, Chatz Maxfield would have declared.

"Sure it is, and if you don't let up on this business it'll go
aglimmering. I want to walk, I tell you," declared Lil Artha.

"Hold on, now. Easy, Lil Artha. We represent a committee of the Hickory
Ridge boys, and have been sent out to make dead sure that you win this
big hike; d'ye get on to that, now?"

"Well, it sounds all right, but for the life of me I can't place you
among all the fellows I know," returned Lil Artha, suspiciously.

"Never mind about that; it don't cut any figure in the matter at all.
Fact is, none of us want you to know us. Then you won't be able to give
the game away."

"Game? What's that mean?" demanded the other. "Open up here, and show
your hand, won't you?"

"We want to help you on your weary way, Lil Artha."

"With cheery words and all that?" queried the one addressed, with
something of a sneer showing in his tone.

"Shucks! Something that counts better than cheery words. We've got a
bully old car right here, Lil Artha. You can see it if you look."

"Well, I see it all right," returned the Hickory Ridge scout; "but
what's that got to do with a fellow that's on a long walk, and anxious
to get to the end of his journey, tell me that?"

"Huh, a heap, Lil Artha; and you must be silly not to see through a
grindstone that's got such a big hole in it. What's a car made for,
anyway?" demanded the leader of the ambushing party, while his comrades
laughed harshly.

"Look here, what're you hinting at?" asked Lil Artha. "You don't want me
to get in there with you, I hope?"

"Plenty of room for six, and there's only four along, Lil Artha."

"But I don't need any help that way," protested the tall boy, angrily.
"I tell you I'm good for hours of hard grind yet. Not one chance in
sixty of me losing out to that Felix Wagner. I don't care what sort of a
hustle he's got on him. Just you clear the track, and watch my smoke,
that's all."

"But we fellows of Hickory Ridge don't want to take the chances. Here's
a bully opening for you to be carried along five miles in as many
minutes. Then we'll set you down, and you can finish the hike into
Little Falls as fresh as a daisy. You'll do it, Lil Artha, of course you
will?"

"Of course I won't, and you hear me warble at that!" roared the tall
boy, furiously. "What's more, I don't believe a single one of you live
in Hickory Ridge. Just let me strike a match and have a look at your
faces. Then perhaps I'll believe you mean honest, even if I can't take
up your offer."

There was a slight scuffle at this. Evidently Lil Artha had attempted
to put his suggestion into practice; but a ready hand had knocked the
match out of his grasp just as he struck it. There was a sudden gleam of
light, and then darkness again.

"No, you don't, old fellow," said a voice that was now tinged with
anger. "None of that funny business goes with us, does it, boys?"

"Nixey, not this time," replied one.

"Quit kidding, and make him be good," growled another, who plainly had
tired of the game as far as it had gone and wanted to be on the move.

"What's this mean?" demanded Lil Artha, just as though he could not as
yet get the true facts through his fuddled brain.

"The bird that can sing and won't, must be made to sing, they say,"
growled the fellow who seemed to take the lead in the abduction game.

"Grab him, boys, and jam him in the car; that's the only way!" burst out
a second of the quartette.

"Hold on here, do you know what this means?" asked the one who was being
threatened in this fashion. "It's an outrage to stop me like this. And
when you say you're from Hickory Ridge, you lie, that's what! You're a
bunch of Fairfield cowards, and you're only trying to make me break the
rules of the game so that I can't win! I'm on to your dodge, and don't
you forget it!"

A series of scornful laughs greeted these words. Evidently the hold-up
fellows felt so very sure that they had things in their hands that they
could afford to delay a little; just as the cat, not feeling
particularly hungry, will play with the mouse that has been maimed.

"Listen to him, will you?" jeered one.

"He's on, all right, fellows," exclaimed another; "he sees through the
dodge, does Lil Artha. Oh, ain't it a great thing to be a scout, and use
your brains! But all the same, we don't expect to let our big friend
have his way, do we, boys?"

Of course they were clustered around the Hickory Ridge scout, cutting
off all avenues of escape, even if Lil Artha should conceive the idea of
running away.

"Not much, we don't," echoed another.

"Keep your hands off me now, I warn you all!" shouted the tall boy,
aggressively; but in reality his words were intended to inform Elmer,
Toby and Nat just how far events had progressed, so that they might
arrange their movements accordingly.

"Are you going to get aboard?" demanded the leader, harshly.

"You mean of my own free will?" asked Lil Artha, fighting for a little
time, so that he could make sure of having his chums come up for the
crisis.

"Yes, climb in, Lil Artha!"

"I refuse; and defy the whole bunch of you. I'm going to stick to the
rules of the game; and you can't make me change my mind. Bah!" the tall
scout shouted.

"Tackle him, and if he fights back, don't be too gentle with the big
cub. He's going to be carried five miles and more, whether he wants to
go or not!"

As the leader snapped this out there were heard sounds of a scuffle. No
need of daylight to tell those who were crouching so close at hand what
was taking place.

Grunts and low exclamations told that Lil Artha was doing his level best
to resist the onslaught of the four Fairfield rowdies.

Still, the tall scout from the Ridge was only a boy after all; and if
those opposed to him were less lengthy, that was no reason they lacked
in physical powers. And left to himself, there could have been no doubt
in the world but that after a gallant resistance Lil Artha would have
found himself bundled into the car, possibly bearing numerous cuts and
contusions on his body as mute witnesses to the fight he had put up.

And once they had him in the tonneau, three could hold him tight while
the other fellow started the machine. After that it would have been
"one, two, three," in the language of Lil Artha himself, so far as his
right to claim the prize of the great hike was concerned.

There could be no doubt but that the boy who was thus attacked was
following out the suggestions given by his patrol leader. This was made
evident by the loud cries of the fellow whose voice proclaimed him as
being the leader of the attacking squad.

"Pull him off, there, can't you?" he yelled. "He's hugging me like fun,
and got his long arms twisted around my neck. Hi, there! somebody give
him a jerk before he chokes me! Knock him in the ribs, and make him let
go, fellows!"

Nothing could hold Nat Scott back after that. The sound of battle acted
on him just as the smoke of burnt powder is said to affect a horse that
is accustomed to the roar of mighty conflict.

Nor did Elmer have the slightest idea of trying to keep either of his
chums in restraint longer. The crisis had arrived, and Lil Artha needed
their help, lest he be bodily kidnaped and carried away in that car.

So they swiftly bore down upon the scene of the fracas. In the gathering
darkness they could just manage to distinguish a group of wildly
struggling figures; for Lil Artha had one of the ambushing party in his
embrace, and the other three were vainly endeavoring to make him break
his hold.

"Remember, one apiece!" Elmer said, as they arrived on the spot.

Up to that second none of the Fairfield fellows had the slightest
suspicion that their miserable game had reached a snag. One happened to
discover the coming of a single figure, and apparently the only thought
that flashed through his mind was that the next nearest contestant had
somehow managed to arrive on the spot ahead of scheduled time; for he
immediately began to shout aloud:

"Keep your hands off, Felix; this is our job, and you don't want to know
anything about it. Go right along the road now, and close your eyes and
ears. You've got a snap, and a soft one at that. Here, let go of me, you
fool! We're your friends, d'ye hear! Quit it, I tell you! Wow! What's
this mean, fellows?" And the one who was making all this outcry suddenly
changed his tune from indignation to fright, as he noticed other
vigorous forms attacking his companions.




CHAPTER XIV.

HOW THE PLOT FAILED.


"HELP, help! he's choking me! Pull him off, you fools, can't you?"
shouted the valiant leader of the four, who had planned to have all this
fun with Lil Artha, and now found that the shoe was on the other foot,
since it seemed to be the tall scout who was enjoying a monopoly of the
sport.

But instead of his mates obeying, he found that they had suddenly ceased
in what efforts they were putting forth. The mystery was not difficult
to solve, because every fellow had enough to do defending himself
against an assailant who had apparently sprung from the darkness.

It was a lively scene for a short time. The Fairfield fellows understood
that in some miserable way their scheme must have become known to the
Hickory Ridge scouts. Perhaps they heard Toby call out the name of Elmer
when asking what he was to do with the fellow on whose back he had
lodged with the tenacity that the Old Man of the Sea exhibited when he
refused to let Sinbad the Sailor put him down.

They struggled hard, but it was no longer with the idea of completing
their cowardly plan. All thought of carrying Lil Artha off in the car
was now abandoned, and each and every Fairfield fellow only considered
his individual chances for making what Nat called a "get-away."

Speaking of Nat, that worthy was really and truly happy. Old times had
come back again, and once more were his muscles being allowed to play
their part in a struggle for the mastery.

He had early picked out the victim whom he felt called upon to punish.
If pugnacious Nat could only have had his sweet way about the matter,
that party would undoubtedly have been the leader of the four Fairfield
schemers; but since Lil Artha already had that worthy "in chancery," as
it is called when one gets his opponent's head under his arm and in a
position of abject helplessness, Nat had to content himself with
selecting a less prominent foeman.

What happened just then and there it would be hardly fair to state,
because of the fact that Nat was a scout in good standing. But there
were several loud thumps heard, and somebody seemed to pick himself up
from the road twice, only to suddenly sit down again, with more grunts
and finally decline to get up at all. Upon which Nat danced around him,
making threatening gestures, and actually daring the alarmed plotter to
try and get on his feet again.

Elmer, on his part, had happened to lay hold of a very slippery
customer. The Hickory Ridge scout did not want to hurt the fellow any
more than he could help; but at the same time he was bound to do all in
his power to hold him; for he meant to take a look at every one of their
faces, so that he could tell them again.

Twice the other had come close to slipping out of his clutches, despite
the grip Elmer had upon him. The second occasion was when with some sort
of movement, which he had possibly practiced until he had it down fine,
the boy suddenly drew his arms out of the sleeves of his coat, and was
in the act of darting away when Elmer threw out a foot and tripped him.

Again he pounced on the other, and this time managed to get a good grip,
so as to be able to exert himself. The consequence was that he spun the
Fairfield chap around on his back and was able to place a knee on his
chest.

"Now, lie still, you, unless you want to get hurt!" Elmer exclaimed; and
being by this time of the opinion that he had run up against a buzz-saw
in action, the panting and defeated plotter gave in.

The clamor had for the most part ceased. Only Nat seemed to be doing an
Indian war dance around his prostrate foeman and shaking his fist every
little while in the fellow's face.

"Don't hit me!" yelled the alarmed one. "I'm all in, don't you see? I
cave! I'm a prisoner, and scouts don't dare hit a defenseless fellow, do
they?"

"Aw, you make me think of a coward that would hide behind a woman's
skirts!" declared Nat, in disgust, because his enjoyment had been so
suddenly cut short by the collapse of his opponent. "Why don't you stand
up and take your medicine like a little man? Just because I belong to
the scouts I ain't allowed to hand you what you'd give me if you had the
upper hand. It's tough, that's what."

Possibly Nat might have been tempted beyond his powers of resistance but
for the fact of the patrol leader's presence.

"Hold up there, Nat, Toby, Lil Artha!" called out Elmer just then. "How
is the world treating you, fellows?"

"All to the good here," chuckled Toby, who was still clinging to the
back of his capture and showed no inclination to let go.

"My pig looks like thirty cents!" said the tall scout who, left to
himself, had speedily reduced his opponent.

"And mine is on the blink, too," declared Nat.

"Shucks, I ain't had hardly a mite of fun out of it all! He laid down on
me, that's what he did, Elmer."

"'Taint so," bawled the fellow, indignantly. "He just went and knocked
me down two times, and here he goes now waving his old fist under my
nose like he wanted to do it some more. Call him off, Elmer, the game's
all up and we cave!"

"All right, boys, glad to hear it," sang out the patrol leader; "but
before we let you go we're bound to have a look at every one of your
faces, so we can know you again."

There was more or less muttering at this, for the Fairfield boys began
to see that they were doubtless in for considerable unenviable publicity
on account of the affair. But beggars can seldom be choosers. They found
themselves helpless in the hands of their enemies, and must do exactly
what they were told.

So Elmer took out his match-safe and prepared to strike a light.

"See if you know the fellow you've got hold of, boys," he called.

Then the little illumination flared up.

"I know this duck all right!" called out Toby. "He's Dick Rawlings who
used to play center field on the Fairfield nine."

"And I've got Eddie Johnston, just as I expected!" announced Lil Artha
who, it will be remembered, had seized upon the leader of the quartette
by whom he had been stopped on the road with the demand that he ride,
whether he wanted to do so or not.

"I don't seem to know this cowardly cub," declared Nat, who had lighted
a match on his own account, and bent low over his prisoner. "He makes
the worst faces you ever saw, just to keep me from knowing him again.
Here, stop your throwing your head around that way, or else you'll get
burned! Hey! what did I tell you? Got a little dose of it then, did you?
And one of your eyebrows singed right off! Well, you _will_ be a beaut
for a while now, and I reckon I can put my finger on you any time I
want."

"You did that apurpose!" shouted the fellow on the ground, glaring at
the grinning Nat. "You just wanted to mark me, that's what!"

"Oh, rats! Close your trap now and see how you can run," laughed Nat, as
he took a firm grip on the collar of the other, and started to drag him
up off the ground, the fellow whimpering all the while as though he
really expected that he was going to be badly treated.

"Who's your bug, Elmer?" cried Lil Artha.

"I think his name is Sandy Coons; anyhow he's got cross-eyes and that
ought to mark him, if ever we want to prove that he was here," replied
the patrol leader, as he assisted the fellow to get up.

"That's O. K., Elmer," declared Lil Artha. "Sandy Coons has got a pair
of the crookedest eyes ever; and if you look close you'll see he's got a
notch in his right ear. I remember when he got that, too; a fellow he
was with pinned his ear to a tree with an arrow he fired, when they were
playing Buffalo Bill's Wild West, and when Sandy tore loose it left a
dent. Is it there, Elmer?"

"Sure as you live," laughed the other, as he looked.

"Then we know the whole cahoot of 'em," declared Lil Artha, "And now,
please hurry up and get 'em on the jump, Elmer, because it's time I was
hiking out again, you understand."

"What're you going to do with us, fellows?" asked the leader, as they
were being ranged in line.

"We're going to start you down the road to meet Felix and tell him the
game's all up," said Toby, who seemed to believe the Fairfield
competitor must be aware of the scheme by means of which he was to be
benefited; though Elmer on his part thought better of the rival scout.

"But--our car is here," expostulated one of the prisoners.

"Then come back and get it later on; we don't mean to run away with it.
But if you take my advice, you'll cut for home right away, because this
thing has gone to the limit. And anyone trying to hamper Lil Artha any
further is liable to get himself seriously hurt. Understand that, all?"
and Elmer allowed his voice to express the indignation that surged
through his soul.

"Aw, let us loose! You know we've thrown up the sponge, and it's to the
tall timber for the lot," grumbled the leader.

Nat suddenly made a rapid movement. There was a cry, and then a fellow
started at a rapid pace along the road. Nat, unable to hold in any
longer, had given his prisoner the start he promised, which, of course,
meant a hearty kick.

Elmer let his captive go scot-free, which fact so aroused the
indignation of Nat that he darted after the fleeing Sandy Coons, and by
rapid work succeeded in placing his number seven in the place where it
would do the most good. At least the others judged this from the
agonized shriek that floated back to their ears.

Lil Artha was quick to see a good thing and show his appreciation. In
his mind imitation was the sincerest flattery; and accordingly the
successor in the bully line to Matt Tubbs was heard to loudly declare
that he would never, never cease to remember the long-legged scout; but
upon hearing the aggressive Nat making in his direction he, too, faded
away.

That left only one to be treated, and this the chap whom Toby had been
riding as he might a horse. This fellow, understanding that he was in
for a good dose of the same kind of medicine, began struggling again,
hoping to upset his captor and in some way make off without submitting
to that humiliating experience.

It was of no use, however. Lil Artha took hold of him, and then told
Toby to let go. There was some little confusion, and then the fellow
galloped madly up the road, bellowing as though in pain.

"Did you get him?" asked Toby, eagerly.

"Well, I nearly broke my toe, because you see I'm wearing light walking
shoes on this hike. And how about you, Toby?" laughed the tall one.

"Dick Rawlings won't play ball for a little while; till he gets over his
limp, anyway," answered the other.

"Field's clear now, Elmer, ain't it?" asked Lil Artha, turning to the
patrol leader for further orders.

"Yes, and the sooner you're off again the better, Lil Artha," replied
Elmer. "You see, that Felix has been coming along all this while, and
perhaps he may be nearer than we think. How is it with you now; ready to
put in your best licks on the home stretch?"

"I'm just feeling as fresh as a daisy, Elmer," replied the other. "This
little business seems to have given me a new appetite. You watch me just
eat up the miles. Nine of 'em, do you say? Shucks, I'll be in Little
Falls before two hours!"

"Bully for Lil Artha!" exclaimed Nat, clapping his hands.

"Well, we'll put it out of the power of these fellows to pursue you any
farther, by taking their spark plug along. Ten to one they haven't got
an extra plug with them. And, Toby, Nat, we mustn't forget that we've
got machines a ways back here."

"That's right, Elmer. Do we get a move on us, and go for 'em now?" asked
Nat.

Lil Artha had already waved his hand at them, and started off along the
road at a stiff pace, which seemed to emphasize the truth of what he had
just said about feeling as "fresh as a daisy."

"That's just what we're going to do," replied the other; "so come along
boys."

"Gee! I hope we happen to run foul of one of them fellers again,"
laughed Nat.

"Don't be a hog, Nat," admonished Toby. "You had ought to remember that
now you belong to the scouts you've got to be merciful."

"Ain't I?" protested the pugnacious one. "Didn't I just kick that feller
with the singed eyebrow, when I might have punched his head? Guess I
know my duty, Toby Jones!"




CHAPTER XV.

VICTORY--SISS! BOOM! HURRAH!


ELMER was as good as his word. He knew how to cripple the car, and in
almost no time he had secured the vital plug without which the machine
was valueless for following after Lil Artha, and making him any more
trouble.

Then he and his two chums hurried back along the road, meaning to look
up their motorcycles; and once mounted upon these they could speedily
overtake Lil Artha; to form a guard of honor about him while he covered
the last few miles of his long and adventurous hike, that was to bring
new glory to the khaki troop of Hickory Ridge.

Nat ran on ahead. They knew full well that it was not any eagerness to
be the first to discover the marked spot near which the machines had
been secreted that influenced him to do this, but some other motive,
possibly not quite so worthy of commendation.

But even Elmer did not say a word. In the first place he did not think
Nat would be successful in overtaking one of the Fairfield schemers; and
then again, Elmer was not feeling any too kindly toward fellows who
could try to put through such a mean plot for defeating the ambitions of
the leader in the great hike.

"Hold on, there; come back, Nat!" called Toby, presently. "You've gone
and overrun the place. It's lucky Elmer here took note of this big oak
tree; or a pretty time we'd have finding our wheels again."

Nat did return, but with a bad grace. He was mumbling something about
"hard lines when everything goes against a fellow," and all that sort of
stuff; but no one appeared to pay any attention to his complaint.

They quickly found the three motorcycles, just as they had left them;
and again Toby started out to lead the way, only to make a mess of it.

"What's wrong this time, Elmer?" he asked, when the patrol leader gave
him to understand that they would be a long time getting out of the
woods if they kept on the route he, Toby, had started to follow. "I made
sure to notice that the wind was on the same side as when you led us out
before."

"Yes, but since then the wind's taken a sudden shift. You should have
paid attention to that just when we left the road," remarked the other.
"A woodsman never goes by what it was a while ago. He knows changes are
liable to come around most any old time; and that's what happened here.
Wind whipped around about ten degrees, and is heading from the southwest
quarter now. That may mean rain before long, boys."

"Let her come if she wants," declared Toby, who was something of a
philosopher at times. "Can't do any more than soak us through, and at
this time of year that's nothing. I've fallen into a pond more times
than I've got fingers on both hands. They just can't drown me, and that
goes, boys."

"So long as Lil Artha comes in well to the front, and the Hickory Ridge
scouts win the big hike, what do we care?" Nat spoke up. "Besides, we've
had a little mite of fun, you know, fellows."

"Fun for the boys, but how about the frogs?" laughed Elmer, as he
pushed his machine through the low brush, heading for the road again.

"Let the bullfrogs look out for themselves, that's all," declared Nat.
"Any silly gump who will duck his head about, when a feller's holdin' a
lighted match close to his nose, just ought to get burnt. Say, think of
that guy minus one of his eyebrows; and he's got big ones too, at that!
Won't he be the sight, though!"

So, joking and laughing, they pushed on. Presently the road being
reached, they proceeded to get a start. Fortunately the incline was
downhill, if anything, which promised to make it easier for a mount. Had
the opposite been the case one or more of the boys might have had some
difficulty in getting started.

Elmer was away first, with a merry splutter of explosive sounds; but he
quickly shut off most of his power in order to wait for the others. Toby
came along after two efforts at mounting; but Nat seemed to be having
one of his old troubles. This time, however, the fault apparently lay in
Nat, and not in his motor, for they could hear the racket the engine
kept up.

"Here he comes like a skyrocket!" announced Toby, as the character of
the sounds from the rear changed; and sure enough they quickly heard Nat
whooping it up.

"Clear the track, there! Get out of the road everybody, and give me
room. Hi! My old ice wagon's taken the bitt in her mouth; she's running
away with me, Elmer! Look out there!"

Luckily Elmer had insisted that each of them light the acetylene gas
lamps belonging to their motorcycles before attempting to make a start.
Hence they were able to see Nat bearing down upon them with a rush, and
get to one side of the road in a hurry.

He went whizzing past amid a rattle and confusion, for, as usual, Nat
had paid no attention to his muffler.

"Somebody head me off!" came floating back, as the runaway machine went
whirling along the road leading to Little Falls.

"Good gracious! What can we do?" gasped Toby.

"You stick by Lil Artha!"

Even as he shouted these words Elmer was giving his machine its head,
and quickly he vanished from the view of the other around a bend.

It was no easy task that now presented itself to the young patrol
leader. Had it been a runaway horse there might have been some hope of
the rider controlling it; but with a motorcycle that took what seemed to
be a fiendish pleasure in doing just the things its owner did not want
done, the case was a different matter.

Something had become jammed, so that poor Nat, having opened his engine
up wide on starting, was unable to shut off power. And there he was,
rushing along at a reckless speed, headed for Little Falls by the most
direct route.

Somebody shouted out something as Elmer sped along. He guessed it must
be Lil Artha, who had discreetly sought the side of the road upon seeing
that fierce light bearing down upon him. But Elmer could not find time
to reply. Besides, there was Toby, who would be along presently, and in
a condition to tell the tall scout just what was taking place.

Elmer was keeping a bright lookout ahead. He knew that, given a fair
field, he could easily overtake the runaway motorcycle; but this thing
of rushing along in the darkness was no child's play. At any second he
might bang into some obstacle that would give him a nasty tumble.

Besides, he had to keep watch over the leading machine, so that he might
not run into Nat; which would be the worst sort of calamity that could
happen to them both.

At least he was gaining fast now; he could tell that by the glow from
the other lamp which lighted up the road ahead.

Presently he found himself within speaking distance. He could just
barely see Nat humped there in his saddle, giving his entire attention
to keeping his runaway machine in the road.

"Hello, Nat ahoy!" he called aloud, so that the sound of his voice might
reach the other above the clattering of his "cantankerous" motor, as Nat
himself was fond of calling his engine, which was now on such a wild
plunge.

"Hey, that you, Elmer?" came back to him; and the patrol leader imagined
there was a trace of alarm as well as vexation in the voice.

"Yes, can't you keep over on the left side of the road? I want to come
closer to you so we can talk," Elmer called.

"All right. Half is good enough for me; so come right along, Elmer."

In another minute they were nearly abreast, each striving to keep to his
side of the thoroughfare as best he could.

"Steady, now, Nat," said Elmer. "Be careful how you let her yaw this
way, for I'm only a length behind you; and a mix-up wouldn't be the
nicest thing going."

"I'm holding her steady, Elmer. Now, tell me how I'm going to get the
curb on her, won't you?"

So Elmer began by asking questions concerning what seemed to have become
jammed; and in this way he quickly understood the situation. A few
suggestions followed, which, upon being put into practice, brought
forth a loud cheer from the relieved owner of the runaway motorcycle.

"It's all right now, Elmer! That last move did the business for her! She
minds her head now; see, I can slow down just as I please. But, wow,
that was a lively dash as long as it lasted. I sure began to think I'd
bump into Little Falls like a falling comet, and run up against a stone
wall; when good-by to my neck."

"Well, suppose then we turn around, and see if we can pick up the
others. Try it first, and see if things work smooth," and Elmer jumped
from his saddle as he said this, assisting Nat make the test.

Having made sure of this they returned along the road, though at a much
less rapid pace than they had recently shown in covering it. The light
from Toby's lamp told them when they were nearing the walking Lil Artha;
and presently the four Hickory Ridge scouts were together.

"I tell you what," remarked Toby, heaving a sigh, "I'll be awful glad to
get you safe back home again, Nat Scott. What you haven't tried the last
few hours ain't worth telling. And now that your old huckleberry of a
machine has taken to cutting up monkey shines a feller's life ain't safe
nohow."

Lil Artha seemed to be in the best of humor. Things were, as he himself
remarked, "breaking all right for a fellow of his size," and he had no
cause for complaint.

"Just a few little incidents to liven up the last quarter of a pokey
hike, boys," he observed, as he strode along, with those lengthy legs
covering a yard at each and every step. "Why, I'll be entering Little
Falls like a conquering hero, with a guard of honor around me. Shouldn't
wonder but what we'll run across Mr. Garrabrant there, keeping company
with the other scout master."

"That's just what you'll do," remarked Elmer over his shoulder as he
rode slowly along in the van of the procession; "because he went ahead
with that idea in view, to be on hand to receive the first contestant
who showed up."

They enlivened the journey with all sorts of conversation and jokes.
Wearied as Lil Artha must certainly be, after coming all these long
miles since sunup, his chums sought to make him forget the fact by
keeping him in high spirits.

Nothing happened to interfere with their plans. Those who were inclined
to act ugly toward the possible winner were a long way in the rear, and
only concerned about getting home again with the car that belonged to
the father of one of the quartette.

It was not a great while after nine o'clock when the lights ahead told
that they were approaching a town.

"That's Little Falls, brother!" called Elmer, cheerily.

"Well, honest now, I ain't sorry to know it," declared Lil Artha;
"though, if I had to do it, I reckon I could crawl along a little
farther, p'raps a dozen or two miles. If anything's won this walk for
me, fellows, it's just been pluck. You can tell me all you want to about
athletes and such, but in my opinion that's what counts above condition
and everything else. As long as you keep up heart you've got a look-in;
but when the sinking spell comes, good-by."

Ten minutes later they entered among the houses. Immediately some boys
in khaki who were posted along the road as a sort of vedette corps,
began to call out to one another, uttering cries like the fox and the
bear, which doubtless denoted the nature of their patrols.

Presently there was quite a crowd accompanying Lil Artha as he headed
for the church where the local troop of Boy Scouts had their
headquarters.

Here there were many lights, and a lot of people assembled. When Lil
Artha passed through the open doorway a tremendous outburst of applause
greeted his appearance. He doubtless felt something of the thrill of
victory that used to come to the Grecian victor in those old days of the
Marathon races.

Mr. Garrabrant beamed with pleasure when he saw that it was a Hickory
Ridge boy who had come in first. Heartily did he shake hands with Lil
Artha and congratulate him on his pluck in making the entire distance
with hours to spare.

And when a little later on, while waiting to see if Felix came in before
the storm broke, the scout master listened with the greatest possible
interest while Elmer related what was known about the evil intentions of
those four scheming lads from Fairfield; and also laughed when he heard
how their designs had been signally defeated by the bravery and
intelligence of Lil Artha's faithful chums.




CHAPTER XVI.

"THE FINEST THING THAT EVER HAPPENED TO FAIRFIELD!"


AFTER the second in the race, Felix Wagner, had come in, one of the
first things the boy from Fairfield did was to hunt out Lil Artha, shake
hands with him heartily, and congratulate him.

"I'd like to have beat you, all right," he said with a whimsical
grimace; "but I take it no fellow had need of feeling ashamed about
playing second fiddle to such a giant on a hike as you, Lil Artha. And
that goes."

Elmer had watched this meeting with eagerness; and he immediately turned
to Mr. Garrabrant.

"That settles one thing I've been worrying about," he declared,
emphatically.

"Meaning that this Fairfield lad has had no knowledge of the miserable
game that some of his misguided friends were engineering in his behalf;
is that it, Elmer?" remarked the gentleman, understanding what he had in
mind.

"Yes, sir," came the reply. "You see, from all accounts, in the old days
this same Felix Wagner was one of the right bowers of Matt Tubbs. And
somehow I seemed to be making up my mind that if _he_ had a hand in this
ugly deal, there was a screw loose somewhere in this reformation
business over there."

"But now?" asked Mr. Garrabrant, smiling.

"It looks good to me, as Lil Artha would say," replied Elmer. "If ever a
fellow seemed in earnest, Felix was when he said those words just now.
And I feel positive that when he hears the story of how some of his
friends tried to make Lil Artha ride, so as to knock him out of the
race, Felix will be furious."

Which prediction proved to be the case a little later; but we cannot
afford either the time or space to go into particulars with regard to
this.

"Now we have another job before us," remarked Mr. Garrabrant, when ten
o'clock had arrived.

"You mean looking up the cripples--those who are ready to admit that
their hope of reaching Little Falls within the required time has died
out; and who will be only too willing to get a lift back home?" Elmer
suggested.

"Why, yes, some of them must be in a pretty bad way; and as it still
threatens rain we must look them all up. I have three cars here that can
be used for the job. Would you care to run ahead, and try to hunt them
up, Elmer?"

"Yes, on one condition," came the reply.

"Oh, you can consider that it is granted before you ask; but what is its
nature?" Mr. Garrabrant inquired, laughingly.

"That I ride alone," answered the boy.

"Oh, I see," the scout master went on, nodding his head wisely; "you
dread having Toby and Nat along with their decrepit wheels to add to
your troubles."

"Yes," said Elmer, seriously; "because I can make much better time
alone, rain or not. Besides, I think the boys ought to have a rest; and
it would really be better if they put up here in Little Falls with some
Boy Scout friends until to-morrow, when they can come home."

"All right; I shall so advise them; though if they choose to leave their
motorcycles here until some future day, they can just as well ride back
in a car."

Both Toby and Nat, however, had friends in the town, and concluded to
stay over. Their machines had taken on a new life apparently, since
their association with Elmer and they were much encouraged.

Accordingly, the leader of the Wolf Patrol started out. Fifty miles or
so does not amount to a great deal when mounted on a good motorcycle;
and if that threatened storm would only hold off a few hours, Elmer felt
that he would have little cause for complaint.

As he rode along the thoroughfare he frequently sounded his horn in such
a way that any stragglers would know it was meant for a signal to show
themselves. It was to be Elmer's duty to warn them that the cars would
soon be along, and that they could get back to Hickory Ridge in that way
if they preferred.

About five miles out he heard a shout, and some one who was standing
alongside the road waved his hat. It was Matty, the leader of the Beaver
Patrol.

Elmer immediately jumped off his machine and put the question up to his
fellow scout. But he really knew what the answer would be before the
other opened his mouth.

"What, me give up, when I'm within smelling distance of my goal?"
declared the determined Matty. "Not for Joseph! I'm going on and report
to the headquarters of the Little Falls troop; and get back home
to-morrow someway or other. But I'm glad Lil Artha got the prize. He's
a dandy on a hike, I tell you; and Hickory Ridge is proud of him, sure
as you're born! So long, Elmer; get word to my folks, if you can; though
I warned 'em not to look for me to-night."

Then Matty strode off bravely, though Elmer detected a slight limp which
even his game qualities could not entirely conceal.

A little later on he picked up Red Huggins and Phil Dale, the latter
having given up, as he was utterly worn out. They had started a fire
alongside the road and were preparing to pass the remainder of the night
after the fashion of true scouts. In view of the possibility of rain the
boys were even then starting to make some sort of shelter from branches
and such stuff as they could find.

Of course they received the good news with tremendous satisfaction; and
declared that they would be only too delighted to get a chance of a lift
back home.

"Hope they'll let me fasten my old wheel behind, somehow?" remarked
Phil; and Elmer assured him that that had all been arranged for.

So leaving them, with an exchange of cheers, Elmer rode on.

One by one he came across Jack, Ty, George, and the Fairfield fellow,
Angus McDowd, the latter still in company with young Robbins. And every
one of them expressed the greatest satisfaction when they heard how Mr.
Garrabrant did not mean that they should spend the night away from home
but would speedily be along with a number of cars calculated to carry
them back to Hickory Ridge.

Even Tom Cropsey was located, he having taken refuge in the branches of
a tree, because of a farmer's vicious dog that kept barking savagely
not far away; and Tom happened to be particularly timid about strange
dogs. His wheel being useless, and himself too cramped for walking, he
had "camped" after his own fashion.

Thus all were restored to their homes that night save the other
Fairfield boy who had sprained his ankle and was in bed at the tavern;
Matty, who declined to be brought back until he had finished his task;
and Elmer's two companions, Toby and Nat, with their unreliable
motorcycles.

Of course it was well along into the morning before the last automobile
reached Hickory Ridge with the balance of the contestants; and as nearly
everybody had long before gone to bed, the victor was not received with
any great acclaim; at least the factory whistles were not blown, nor the
church bells rung. But a few of the faithful scouts, who were bound to
make a night of it, had waited up at headquarters; and these fellows
gave three hearty cheers when they saw the long-legged Lil Artha step
stiffly from the leading car.

When, on the following night, a regular meeting of the troop was held,
every fellow made sure to be in attendance; for it had been announced
that the several contestants in the great hike, as well as the five who
had gone forth on bicycles and motorcycles, intended giving a detailed
report of what adventures had happened on the way; and it was expected
that there would be some stories worth listening to.

The indignation of the boys was intense when they heard how those
Fairfield four had tried to block Lil Artha's game and, by forcing him
to ride, render his claim to be a contestant under the rules null and
void.

"But listen, fellows," said Elmer, who presided in place of the scout
master, called out of town on sudden business; "don't be too quick to
blame the Boy Scouts of Fairfield for that rascally piece of business.
Matt Tubbs called me up on the phone this afternoon and wanted me to
express the indignation of himself and his comrades over the matter. He
declared that they had not the faintest indication of the affair; and
that it was engineered entirely by some 'outcasts,' who, having declined
to subscribe to the twelve cardinal principles of the new movement, were
doing everything in their power to wreck the troop over there."

"Well, they won't succeed, that's all," declared Lil Artha, confidently;
"because my father says he knows that the best people of both Fairfield
and Cramertown are just daft over the change that has taken place among
the boys there ever since the scouts were organized, and that they mean
to stand back of the movement through thick and thin. They say the
organization of the scouts was the finest thing that ever happened to
Fairfield."

"And, fellows," continued Elmer, "I think that on the strength of this,
not to speak of Felix saying he would have refused to accept a tainted
title if he had won after Lil Artha was kidnaped, we ought to give our
fellow scouts over there a cheer. Yes, and send them a letter
congratulating them on the new spirit of fairness that has sprung up
among them."

It was put in the form of a motion, and carried unanimously. So three
cheers and a tiger were given with a will; and later on the letter was
written, which Elmer himself promised to deliver to Matt Tubbs, the loan
of that fine motorcycle still holding good.

And this, then, was the way the great hike went through. Lil Artha, of
course, was the pride of the troop for his fine work; but the other
fellows who had done the best they knew how were not forgotten in the
chronicles of the event, as written in the log book of the secretary.

The only serious accident of the affair was the sprain which Henry Cobb
had been unfortunate enough to receive, and which was likely to make him
limp for many weeks. But it had afforded a tremendous amount of fun, and
at the same time proved that the fact of a boy belonging to the scouts
need not detract in the least from his manly qualities.

Vacation was now nearly at an end, and presently the scouts would be
taking up their school duties for the new year. The summer that had
passed had really been the most delightful one in all their experience;
and they looked forward hopefully to other good times ahead, when, as
scouts, they might be given the privilege of learning many of the
secrets of Nature and of building up sturdy and manly characters under
the influence of the splendid rules governing the organization.

But there was one grumbler out of the number starting out for Little
Falls, and this was Nat. He never could get entirely over the cruel fate
that had allowed those trapped plotters to get off "so easy" and was
often heard to mutter that if Elmer had not happened to be along there
might have been a different story to tell. But like a lot of fellows,
Nat's "bark was more savage than his bite," and perhaps, after all, had
he been allowed his own sweet way, he might have remembered how he had
faithfully promised not to harbor the spirit of revenge when he signed
the roster of the Hickory Ridge Boy Scouts' troop.


_THE END._


_The next story of this Series (Number Six), which can be found on sale
everywhere, is called "The Hickory Ridge Boy Scouts' Endurance Test; or,
How Clear Grit Won the Day."_




ADDENDA

BOY SCOUT NATURE LORE




BOY SCOUT NATURE LORE TO BE FOUND IN THE HICKORY RIDGE BOY SCOUT SERIES.


    Wild Animals of the United States }
    Tracking                          } in Number I.

    THE CAMPFIRES OF THE WOLF PATROL.


    Trees and Wild Flowers of the United States in Number II.

    WOODCRAFT, OR HOW A PATROL LEADER MADE GOOD.


    Reptiles of the United States in Number III.

    PATHFINDER, OR THE MISSING TENDERFOOT.


    Fishes of the United States in Number IV.

    FAST NINE, OR A CHALLENGE FROM FAIRFIELD.


    Insects of the United States in Number V.

    GREAT HIKE, OR THE PRIDE OF THE KHAKI TROOP.


    Birds of the United States in Number VI.

    ENDURANCE TEST, OR HOW CLEAR GRIT WON THE DAY.




THE INSECTS OF THE UNITED STATES.


Insects are the most abundant of the animal kingdom. They are classified
principally by the nature of their wings. Dr. Sharp, an authority on
Entomology, recognizes but nine orders:

    1. Aptera.
    2. Orthoptera.
    3. Neuroptera.
    4. Hymenoptera.
    5. Coleoptera.
    6. Lepidoptera.
    7. Diptera.
    8. Thysanoptera.
    9. Hemiptera.

Many useful products are obtained from insects. From them we get our
silk, honey and cochineal, and they help to fertilize our flowers. On
the other hand, many are detrimental to agriculture and health.




APTERA.


These are primitive insects without wings. The Campodea, a small insect,
belongs to this order. Another example is the "Silverfish," which is
found in receptacles holding sugar, starch, etc., in and about unclean
bakeshops and kitchens. They are known principally in houses of the
Southern States, especially in damp places.




ORTHOPTERA.


These are the straight-winged insects. They have four wings, the front
pair being usually leathery and smaller than the hind pair.

Here belong the Grasshoppers, Katydids and Crickets. Cockroaches,
Walking-sticks, Leaf insects, Praying Mantis also belong to this order.


THE COCKROACH.

Most of the Cockroaches are nocturnal. It is said that their food is
dead animal matter. The kinds of Cockroaches found in the house are the
American Cockroach, Croton-bug and the Black Beetle. Apparently they eat
anything, animal or vegetable, and are great pests in ill-kept houses,
especially where moisture is plentiful. The name "Croton-bug" is applied
to the smaller sort, it having made its appearance about the time when
Croton water was first used in New York City. They show a strong
distaste to light and are fond of warmth. The eggs are laid in capsules.


THE LOCUST.

This family are insects most destructive to crops. The antennas are
short, the hind legs large and strong, giving them their jumping power.
The most injurious of these is the migratory locust. During the years
1874 to 1876 this insect, it is said, did more than $200,000,000 damage
to crops in four States of the Union. Every country boy knows the
crackling sound made by these grasshoppers in their flight. Their "song"
is made by the scraping of the legs against their wings. Locusts swarm
and are not particular as to the kind of vegetable matter which they
eat; anything green which they chance upon is devoured. The red-legged
grasshopper is the one most common in the Eastern States in late summer.

The true or green grasshoppers have long horns, are much softer in body
and "sing" more than their cousins of the locust family. The "Katydids"
belong here.


CRICKETS.

[Illustration: PRAYING MANTIS.]

Crickets are closely related to the green grasshoppers. They have long
antennae. The Mole Cricket burrows in the earth, as its name implies,
digging with its powerful forelegs. The black Field Cricket lives in
small burrows in fields and pastures. The Crickets are musical and
together with their cousins of this family swell the insect chorus of
our summer nights.

A peculiar insect belonging to this family is popularly known as the
Walking-stick; in motion it does not look unlike a twig moving about.
Its body is long and slender. In the tropics this family has many forms
which so closely resemble the leaves, and even flowers of plants and
trees, as to fool not only the casual but the close observer.

Another peculiar insect is the Praying Mantis; this name has been given
them because of the position which they take, the legs being held as
though in prayer. They are found in the Southern States and are regarded
with superstitious awe by the ignorant.




THE NEUROPTERA.


These are the net-veined winged insects; the Dragon flies, Mayflies,
Caddis-flies belong in this order.


THE DOBSON.

The Dobson is one of the most curious insects in this order. It is
generally known as the hellgrammite, although it has probably more
popular names than any other insect and some are very peculiar, for
instance, Conniption-bugs, Goggle-goy, Flip-flaps, Ho Jacks,
Snake-doctor. It is a large insect with strong-biting mouth, living in
its larval form in water.


THE SNAKE FLIES.

These are found in the Western States and prey vigorously upon other
insects and render themselves especially important to the farmer of the
far West because of their ravages upon the Coddling Moth, which is the
special enemy of apple trees.

[Illustration: WALKING-STICKS.]


THE ANT LION.

The Ant Lion digs a little pit in loose sand and buries itself therein
with the exception of its head. Into this trap fall small insects on
which it feeds. After the victim is sucked dry the remains are thrown
out of the pit.


THE DRAGONFLIES.

These insects are also known as "Horse-stingers" and "Devil's
Darning-needles," and many superstitious beliefs are held in regard to
them, although they are perfectly harmless. Many ignorant people still
hold them capable of sewing up bad boys' ears. The early part of their
existence is spent in the water. They prey upon flies, mosquitoes and
small insects. In the wings of these flies are often beautiful colors.
They frequent stagnant water. The Kingbird favors them as a diet.


THE MAYFLIES.

The Mayflies or Shadflies, like the Dragonflies, spend their infancy
under water feeding upon vegetables and primitive forms of animal life.
Their scientific name is Ephemerida, coined from the Greek word meaning
a day. They were given this name because of their short life. Great
quantities of the larv? are eaten by fish.


CADDIS FLIES.

What observing country boy has not seen the queer-looking Caddis worms
in the brooks and their curious larva cases. Put them in your aquarium,
for they are interesting to watch and study. Their wings are more or
less covered with hair and this gives them a moth-like appearance. They
frequent the shady margins of streams. The larv? cases are made of
leaves, bits of sticks, sand, shells, etc., fastened by silk which the
caddis worm spins. These cases protect them from fishes and preying
insects.

[Illustration: DRAGON FLIES.]




THE HYMENOPTERA.


The Hymenoptera is an order of insects of high rank containing the Bees,
Ants, Wasps and Gallflies. Dr. Leland O. Howard, Chief of the Division
of Entomology in the United States Department of Agriculture, says that
this order "comprises nearly 30,000 described species; but the enormous
number of undescribed species, particularly of the smaller parasitic
forms inhabiting tropical regions and other out-of-the-way localities,
would probably swell this number to more than 300,000. To indicate the
work still to be done in this order, it is safe to say that a day's
collecting in Central Park, New York, almost under the windows of the
great American Museum of Natural History, or in Logan Square,
Philadelphia, within 200 yards of the Academy of Natural Sciences, would
result in the capture of a number of species new to science." Most
remarkable are the insects of this order for their seeming intelligence
and the wonderful habits and methods in their interesting colony lives.

[Illustration: MODERN BEE-HIVE]

[Illustration: QUEEN BEE]


BEES.

Bees are distinguished from Wasps and Ants by their hairy bodies. The
common hive bee is an insect most important to mankind, and bee-keeping,
properly conducted, is a profitable occupation. Here is a chance for boy
scouts to win money and laurels. In early summer the bees "swarm." The
bee-keeper watches for signs of this and knows that when there is an
unusual restlessness among them and the workers become less attentive to
their regular duties, "swarming" may be expected. Suddenly more than
half the workers, with the queen of the hive, leave the old home and fly
to a new place where they "swarm." A second or third swarm sometimes
leave the hive, each with their respective queen. The first, however,
is always the most important. When hived they climb to the roof and hang
in a mass for often a day. The wax taken from the old hive is kneaded
and the foundation of the new honeycomb started. As soon as the workers
finish cells, the queen lays eggs in them. These hatch into maggot-like
baby bees which have to be fed and taken care of. The worker must now
forage for pollen or "beebread" and nectar from flowers. The nectar they
carry in their "honey-bags" and change it into honey. The inside workers
feed the youngsters, build the comb and clean house, even ventilating it
by fanning the air with their wings. In the hives in the swarming are
drones who do no work. They are permitted to live and feed on the stores
until this season is over, then they are relentlessly killed by the
workers. Bees were kept for their product by the Egyptians.

The Honey Bee was imported from Europe and is not a native of this
country. The Cuckoo Bees are so called because of their habits of living
in the nests of other bees. They apparently live there in friendly
relations with the rightful occupants of the hives.

The Carpenter Bees; these insects are so called because of their habit
of boring into the stems of plants. They line their cells with silky
membrane and build mud partitions. The larger forms of these bees bore
into tree trunks and lumber, and even the timber of buildings.

Mason Bees build earthen cells of sand, earth, etc., glued together.
Another group of these cut pieces from leaves with which to form their
cells.

[Illustration: SECTION OF CELLS]

[Illustration: STRAW-HIVE]

The Bumble Bees; Western farm boys have invented a method or robbing
bumble bees' nests. They take a gallon or two-gallon jug partly filled
with water and place it near the nest. They then beat the nest and
retire to a distance. The bees swarm out of the nest in their attempt
to find the guilty disturber. The jug attracts their attention; they fly
to it and the beating of their wings over the mouth of the jug causes a
roar which attracts the bees and causes them to fly at the mouth and
drop into it. The noise of those inside increases the attraction and
finally all the bees are inside. After all the bees are thus disposed of
the robbing of the nest is then a safe matter.


WASPS.

The wasps' bodies are less hairy than the bees'. Some of the wasps live
solitary lives and other groups colonize. The former build their nests
in a burrow or attach them to trees. These nests are supplied by the
mother wasp with animal food. The social wasp includes the paper-making
varieties and the hornets. The habits of both are similar. The nest is
never used more than one season. In India it is said that there is a
variety that builds a nest reaching a length of several feet. The
hornets suspend large, round nests often a foot in diameter from tree
branches.

The Mason Wasps build their nests of mud under outhouses, roofs, on
rocks and trees. The sting of these insects, especially that of the
hornet, is severe, but they do not sting unless disturbed; then they
display great anger and will follow the disturber for a long distance.
Although they do considerable damage to fruit they are also helpful as
destroyers of insect life.

[Illustration: NEST OF COMMON WASP SEEN FROM BELOW.]

They capture and store in their cells a great variety of insects,
spiders, flies and plant-lice. Certain members of this group of insects
burrow into the earth and conceal their nests by inserting a stone over
which they scrape earth. When the prey is taken the insect is carried
into the burrow and the entrance to it is again closed. Dr. S. W.
Williston, writing of this insect, states that the wasp has been
observed to "use a stone as a tamping-iron to pack the earth into the
mouth of the burrow." He feared, he says, to publish this observation
because he thought he would not be believed. It is also said by
observers of these wasps that each insect seems to have distinct
individuality, for instance, some are careless, some are industrious,
some scrupulously painstaking. One entomologist tells of a method used
by a wasp in capturing a certain spider: the wasp would entangle itself
in the spider's web and the latter would dart out from her hiding place;
the wasp would then easily disengage herself from the web and follow the
spider to its hiding place. The Cicada often becomes prey of the wasp
and its song suddenly ceases as it is quickly stung into insensibility.
If in a struggle the two fall to the ground, the wasp drags the Cicada
up a tree until she reaches a height from which she can fly downward to
her storehouse. The colony wasps are the paper-making insects, their
nests being made from woodpulp and woodfiber secured from old fences and
unpainted woodwork which they mix with saliva and form into a pulp with
which they build their nests.

[Illustration: CICADA.]

[Illustration: COLONY NEST OF BLACK ANTS]

[Illustration: FEEDING LARVAE]

[Illustration: CELLS OF BLACK ANTS. ENLARGED.]


ANTS.

The third group in this important order are the ants. They always live
in communities and build nests which are especially devoted to the
purpose of raising their young. The young are fed from the mouth of
the worker ants. A remarkable peculiarity of these insects is their
practice of making slaves. The large red ant often makes raids on other
ants, carrying off their young to their own nests where they are brought
up to perform the work of their masters. They also domesticate
plant-lice, which have on that account been nicknamed "Ant-Cows."
Instances are related where beetles have been found in ant nests; they
are fed by the ants and in case of migration are carried away by them to
their new home. While some of these guests are tolerated because,
perhaps, the ants cannot rid themselves of them and others are
parasites, some seem to be of the nature of pets. The black ants build
mountain-like nests, sometimes reaching three feet in height; in these
nests sometimes forty or fifty species of ants have been found.


GALL FLIES.

All the members of this family produce galls. In the spring the insect
breaks the vegetable tissue by means of her sting and deposits the eggs.
When hatched the young seem to exercise a peculiar influence on the
growing tissue, shaping it into a swelling or gall containing a series
of chambers. Certain of the galls formed on the oak trees were formerly
used in the manufacture of ink and tannin.


ICHNEUMON FLIES.

These flies attack caterpillars especially and lay their eggs in their
bodies. The young, when hatched, feed upon the unfortunate victim.


THE HORN-TAILS.

The wood-eaters or horn-tails are wood-boring insects living in the
trunks of trees and stems of plants. They are called "horn-tails"
because of the spine at the end of the body. They lay their eggs in
these borings and the young, when hatched, continue to bore their way
through the pith.


THE SAW-FLIES.

The saw-flies saw their way into plant tissue and lay their eggs in the
openings thus made. Many of these flies are very injurious to vegetation
because of this habit. The currant-worm, rose-slug and pear-slug are all
members of this family, and farmers are not on friendly terms with these
insects.




THE COLEOPTERA.


This is the order of insects which includes beetles, glowworms,
lady-birds, weevils, cock-chafers, etc. Their chief characteristic is
the hard wing covers. The wings proper are below these. Most of this
order have strong mandibles. The diet of beetles is much varied, but
they are all voracious.

The little lady-birds, about whom the nursery rhyme sings, warning them
to "fly away home," feed upon the scale insects.

The glow-worm derives the first part of its name from its luminosity,
and the second from its worm-like appearance. To this same family belong
a number of other luminous beetles, the name "firefly" being usually
given.

The weevil is a general name for plant-eating beetles, and they not
infrequently cause great destruction to vegetable matter. Certain
weevils are interesting because of their habit of rolling up leaves in
order to construct a shelter for their young. The nut-weevil lays her
eggs in the young nut while it is still soft and its grub bores its way
out in the fall. The cotton-boll weevil has caused great injury to the
cotton crops in the Southern States. It pierces the leaves of the plant
and lays its eggs. The young feed upon the plant. There are also corn
weevils and rice weevils, and still others that attack peas and beans.

The cock-chafers belong to a large group of dark-colored beetles known
as June bugs. They frequently enter light rooms at night, making a loud
buzzing noise. The insect comes out of the ground in the spring and is
very destructive to the foliage of fruit and other trees. Its grubs live
under ground and feed on roots. The chief enemies of the grub are moles
and birds; of the beetles, bats and birds.




LEPIDOPTERA.


The order of Lepidoptera includes the butterflies and moths. Their wings
and body are covered with scales, frequently bright-colored. There are
several stages in the life history of these insects just as there are in
the life history of other insects, but these stages are so pronounced
and the changes so remarkable in this order that it is well here for us
to consider the different steps which nature takes in transforming the
repulsive caterpillar into the beautiful butterfly or moth. The first
stage is the egg, from which is hatched the caterpillar. The
caterpillar, after living its life, spins its cocoon, is transformed
into the chrysalis. The chrysalis in turn eventually becomes the
butterfly.

The milkweed butterflies are large-sized butterflies; the upper surface
of the wings is bright and reddish bordered with black, and the whole
wing is veined heavily with black. The wings are spotted with white; the
caterpillar is bright yellow with black bands. This insect often appears
in large numbers in New Jersey late in the autumn. This particular one
of the milkweed butterflies is called "The Monarch"; a smaller one of
this genus is called "The Queen."

[Illustration: BUTTERFLIES.]

The California long-winged butterfly. The fore wings are brownish-black
blotched with yellow; the hind wings are a dingy orange.

The Dircenna. The fore wings of this butterfly are grayish-brown with
transparent spots; the hind wings are more yellowish in color.

The Cliff Fritillary. The upper side of this butterfly is bright
tawny-brown spotted with black; the hind wings have a black border
spotted with the same color as the wings. The under side of the fore
wings is orange. The caterpillar feeds upon the passion flower of the
Southern states. It is found from southern Virginia westward to Arizona
and California.

The Regal Fritillary. The upper side of the fore wings is a bright
brown, spotted and blotched with cream color and black; the upper side
of the hind wings is black with cream-colored spots. The caterpillar is
large, nearly two inches long; black with stripes and bands of
reddish-orange. There are six rows of spines. The caterpillar feeds on
violets and does not appear in the daytime. This is a beautiful
butterfly and is found from Maine to Nebraska, frequenting the borders
of woodlands.

The Diana. Both wings are a dark brown with wide border of dark orange
spotted with brown spots. It is found in the Virginias, Carolinas,
Georgia, Tennessee and Kentucky.

The Silver-bordered Fritillary. This is a small butterfly ranging over
most of the northern part of the United States. The fore wings on the
under side are spotted at the margin with silver spots.

The Baltimore. Upper side black bordered with a row of red spots
followed by three rows of yellow spots on the fore wings and two rows on
the hind wings. It is found in colonies in swamps, in the northern
parts of the United States and Canada.

The Question Sign. This butterfly is easily determined by its large
size; the wings are peculiarly shaped; it is bright brown on the upper
side, spotted but edged with darker brown and pale blue. This is a
common butterfly of the Middle States and is often found in the early
spring.

The Red Admiral. This is a common butterfly found throughout North
America. It derives its name from the red on its fore wings and the red
border on its hind wings.

The Thistle Butterfly. Wherever thistles grow may be found "The Painted
Lady," and Dr. V. J. Holland in his Butterfly Books says, "This is
undoubtedly the most widely distributed of well-known butterflies. It is
found in almost all regions of the earth and in many tropical lands in
both hemispheres." The food plants of the caterpillar are thistles.

The Buckeye. On both the upper and lower sides of the fore and hind
wings are eye-like spots. It is a common butterfly in the South, but is
occasionally found as far North as New England. These butterflies will
fight other passing butterflies.

The Painted Purple Butterfly is easily distinguished because of its
broad white bands across both wings.

The Blue Butterflies, the Copper Butterflies and the Hair-streaked
Butterflies are small insects, many of which are characterized by the
bright blue of the upper side of the wings; in other forms the copper
color prevails. Hair-streaked Butterflies often have small tails on
their horned wings.

The Sulphur Butterflies and Whites are medium-sized or small
butterflies, white or yellow in color, having dark edgings. The common
white butterfly is easily classified by its pure-white color of the
under-side white wings.

The Cabbage Butterfly is a common insect familiar to all. Much good
sauerkraut material is spoiled by its ravages.

Orange Tipped Butterflies. This is a large species of pretty
butterflies.

The Swallow-tail Butterflies are generally large butterflies with the
hind wings tailed.

The Ajax is one of the most beautiful of the butterflies. Its wings are
streaked with brown and white, with red and blue spots near the tail on
the hind wings.

The Tiger Swallow Tail seems to be fond of the woodlands of
Pennsylvania, Virginia, Carolina, Kentucky and Tennessee. The common
Eastern swallow-tail is bright yellow and black, and found all over the
Atlantic States.

The Wood Nymphs are butterflies of moderate size with eye-like spots on
their wings, the wings being tawny brown or gray.

We have endeavored to give our boy readers a brief description of some
of the most beautiful and some of the most common butterflies of the
United States. There are thousands more.


MOTHS.

The moths are popularly distinguished from butterflies by the belief
that they fly at night; there are, however, numerous exceptions to this
distinction. The antennae of butterflies are blunt; in moths they vary
in form, being rarely shaped like those of the butterfly. Moths are more
numerous than butterflies, and vary as to size and color. Some moths
have been known to reach a size of six or seven inches in width and
attain the most brilliant coloring of all insects.

[Illustration: MOTHS.]

Hawk Moth. This is a large, dull-colored, powerful moth. The
caterpillars are smooth and striped, horned at the rear end. The Death's
Head Moth belongs to the same family, as do also the Oleander Hawk
Moth and the Humming-bird Hawk Moth. The last mentioned is often
mistaken for a humming bird. Caterpillars of this family are destructive
to potato, tomato and tobacco plants. The moths of this family are known
as the Sphinx Moths. The markings on the body of the Death's Head Moth
resemble a skull and crossbone--hence its name. The body is covered with
hair. The fore wings are brown, the hind wings yellow, banded with
black. It makes a squeaking noise and is often found in beehives where
it is attracted by the honey.

The Egger Moths get their name from the peculiar egg-shell-like surface
of their cocoons.

The Lima Moths are among the largest and most beautiful of our moths.
The hind wings have a tail-like appendage. It is pale green in color
with a purple band along the front of the fore wings.




THE ORDER DIPTERA.


This order includes all the true flies or insects having but two wings.
There is probably no other order of insects that are more injurious to
the health of human beings. The housefly, because of its habits, is a
virulent pest in the spreading of disease and it has been discovered
that certain mosquitoes carry the germs of malarial and yellow fevers.


MOSQUITOES.

Up to the year 1900 little had been known about these insects. Since
then it has been discovered that one genus is responsible for the
transfer of malarial fever and another variety is the sole means of the
spreading of yellow fever. Mosquitoes are found in any locality where
stagnant standing water allows them the opportunity to breed. Their
eggs are laid in a flat mass on the surface of the water, and each of
these masses contains from 200 to 400 eggs. The young mosquitoes issue
from the under side of the eggs, coming to the surface frequently to
breathe, which they do by means of a long tube at the end of the body
which is thrust up above the surface of the water. In many localities
boy scouts have been interested in exterminating mosquitoes, the most
successful methods being either the abolition of their breeding places,
the flooding of surfaces of stagnant water with kerosene, or the
introduction of fish into fishless ponds. In a mosquito crusade every
receptacle for standing water must be found and either destroyed or
treated with kerosene.


MIDGES.

Midges are small or minute flies; swarms of them are commonly seen in
damp localities in the summer.


FLIES.

Horseflies are unusually abundant in the neighborhood of ponds and
streams.

The Robber Flies, or bee-killers, are the hawks of the insect world,
preying upon their victims on the wing. In flying an insect is likely to
become the victim to their sharp little dagger, which they carry in
their beak. It is said that they will frequent a favorite position near
a beehive and make frequent trips back and forth, and hundreds of empty
bodies of bees are found beneath this perch.

The Dancefly is so called because of the up-and-down movement which they
make in their swarms.

The Housefly. These insects are highly injurious to human beings because
of their agency in spreading germs of such diseases as typhoid fever and
Asiatic cholera. It has been discovered recently that germs of
infantile paralysis are conveyed by the housefly.




THYSANOPTERA.


To this order belong very small insects known as "thrips." They are
found in large numbers in flowers and in the heads of grain,
chrysanthemum, hydrangea, orange-blossom, cabbage leaf, cauliflower,
squash, turnips and other plants.




HEMIPTERA


includes plant-lice, scale insects and bugs proper. One entomologist
says: "If anything were to exterminate the destroyers of hemiptera, we,
ourselves, would probably be starved in the course of a few months," so
harmful are they to vegetation. One of the best-known insects of this
order is the cicada or harvestfly, popularly but wrongly called the
"locust," the term "locust" belonging rightfully to the long-horned
grasshoppers. The body of the cicada is large with a blunt head. At the
end of July and early in August its song may be heard in the treetops.

The queer-shaped treehoppers also belong to this order. When they are
resting upon a twig, it is difficult, except upon close examination, to
distinguish them from a thorn or a natural protuberance of the wood.

The Spittle Insects. After hatching from the egg the young insects live
in little frothy masses like spittle on the stems of plants and grasses.

Scale Insects. Many of the members of this family are very injurious to
fruit trees and other trees. They feed upon the sap.

The Oyster-shell Bark Louse is found particularly upon apple and pear
trees.

[Illustration: SCALE INSECTS.]

Plant Lice. These insects prey upon cultivated plants. Huxley computed
that the uninterrupted breeding of ten generations of plant lice from
the single insect would produce a bulk equal to the population of the
Chinese Empire, 500,000,000 of human beings. We have already spoken of
the relations between ants and plant lice; they are often called "Ant
Cows" because of the ant's habit of milking them for the juices which
they exhume.


THE TRUE BUGS.

The "Water Boatmen" may be found swimming on the surface of water. They
often go below the surface, carrying with them a bubble of air which is
held by the hairs of their body. They hibernate in the mud at the bottom
of the water. The eggs of these insects are made into cakes and are
eaten by the Indians.

Another family of water bugs are properly called the "back swimmers"
because of their habit of swimming on their backs. They prey upon other
water insects and even fish. They can sting with their beak.


TOAD BUGS.

They have a short, wide body, protruding eyes and toad-like color. They
are found in damp places under the banks of ponds and streams.

The Water Striders are the long-legged insects which run over the
surface of the water with such speed that it is difficult to catch them.

The Cannibal Bugs, the Pirate Bugs, are preying insects which feed upon
other insects whose blood they suck. A species of this insect was
especially abundant in the Eastern States in 1898. Their bites and
blood-sucking habits gave cause to the "kissing-bug" scare to which the
newspapers gave great publicity.


THE AMBUSH BUGS

is the name which Professor Comstock has given to insects frequenting
yellow flowers, with which its color agrees and hides it from other
insects visiting the flowers.


THE SQUASH BUG

is the enemy of vegetables of the pumpkin family and has a distinctly
disagreeable odor.


THE STINK BUGS

are small flat bugs which, like the Squash Bug, have a bad odor. One of
this family is still called, in Georgia, "The Abe Lincoln" bug, and in
Texas, "The Third Party" bug.


THE CINCH BUGS.

This is a bug that makes a specialty of corn and grasses as a diet.




INDEX


                     PAGE

    Abe Lincoln Bugs, 175

    Ajax Butterflies, 168

    Ambush Bugs, 175

    Ants, 154, 160, 162

    Ant Lion, 152

    Aptera, 147


    Back Swimmers, 174

    Baltimore Butterfly, 166

    Bee Killers, 171

    Bees, 154-158
      Bumble, 156
      Carpenter, 156
      Cuckoo, 156
      Honey, 156
      Mason, 156

    Beetle, Black, 148

    Blue Butterflies, 167

    Buckeye, 167

    Bugs, 174
      Abe Lincoln, 175
      Ambush, 175
      Cannibal, 174
      Cinch, 175
      June, 164
      Kissing, 175
      Pirate, 174
      Squash, 175
      Stink, 175
      Third Party, 175
      Toad, 174

    Bumblebees, 156

    Butterflies, 164
      Ajax, 168
      Blue, 167
      Cabbage, 168
      California Long-winged, 166
      Copper, 167
      Hair-streaked, 164
      Milkweed, 164
      Orange-tipped, 168
      Painted Purple, 167
      Sulphur, 167
      Swallow-tail, 168
      Thistle, 167
      White, 167


    Cabbage Butterflies, 168

    Caddis Flies, 150, 152

    California Long-winged Butterflies, 166

    Campodea, 147

    Cannibal Bugs, 174

    Carpenter Bees, 156

    Cicada, 160, 172

    Cinch Bugs, 175

    Cliff Fritillary, 166

    Cockchafers, 163

    Cockroaches, 148

    Coddling Moth, 150

    Coleoptera, 147, 163

    Conniption Bugs, 150

    Copper Butterflies, 167

    Corn Weevils, 164

    Cotton-boll Weevils, 163

    Crickets, 148, 149

    Cricket Field, 149
      Mole, 149

    Croton Bugs, 148

    Cuckoo Bees, 156

    Currant Worms, 163


    Dance Flies, 171

    Death's Head Moths, 168

    Devil's Darning-needles, 152

    Diana, 166

    Diptera, 147, 170

    Dircenna, 166

    Dobson, 150

    Dragon Flies, 150, 152, 153


    Egger Moths, 168

    Ephemerida, 152


    Field Cricket, 149

    Fire-flies, 163

    Flies, Caddis, 150, 152
      Dance, 171
      Dragon, 150, 152, 153
      Fire, 163
      Gall, 154, 162
      Harvest, 172
      Horse, 171
      House, 171
      Ichneumon, 162
      May, 150, 152
      Robber, 171
      Saw, 163
      Shad, 152
      Snake, 150

    Flip-flaps, 150

    Fritillary, Cliff, 166
      Regal, 166
      Silver-bordered, 166


    Gall Flies, 154, 162

    Glow Worms, 163

    Goggle-goy, 150

    Grasshoppers, 148
      Red-legged, 149


    Hair-streaked Butterflies, 164

    Harvest Flies, 172

    Hawk Moth, 168

    Hellgrammite, 150

    Hemiptera, 147, 172

    Ho-Jack, 150

    Honey Bee, 156

    Horn Tails, 162

    Hornet, 158

    Horse Flies, 171

    Horse Stingers, 152

    House Flies, 171

    Hymenoptera, 147, 154


    Ichneumon Flies, 162


    June Bugs, 164


    Katydids, 148

    Kissing Bugs, 175


    Lady Birds, 163

    Leaf Insects, 148

    Lepidoptera, 147, 164

    Lice, Plant, 174

    Locusts, 148

    Louse, Oyster Shell Bark, 172

    Luna Moth, 170


    Mason Bees, 156
      Wasps, 158

    May Flies, 150, 152

    Midges, 171

    Milkweed Butterflies, 164

    Mole Cricket, 149

    Monarch Butterflies, 164

    Mosquitoes, 170

    Moths, 168-170
      Coddling, 150
      Death's Head, 168
      Egger, 168
      Hawk, 168
      Luna, 170
      Sphinx, 170


    Neuroptera, 147, 150

    Nut Weevils, 163


    Orthoptera, 147, 148

    Oyster Shell Bark Louse, 172


    Painted Purple Butterflies, 167

    Pear Slugs, 163

    Pirate Bugs, 174

    Plant Lice, 174

    Praying Mantis, 148, 149, 150


    Queen Butterflies, 164

    Question Sign Butterflies, 167


    Red Admiral Butterflies, 167

    Red-legged Grasshoppers, 149

    Regal Fritillary, 166

    Rice Weevils, 164

    Robber Flies, 171

    Rose-slugs, 163


    Saw Flies, 163

    Scale Insects, 171, 173

    Shad Flies, 152

    Silver-bordered Fritillary, 166

    Sulphur Butterflies, 167

    Silverfish, 147

    Slugs, Pear, 163

    Slugs, Rose, 163

    Snake-doctor, 150

    Snake Flies, 150

    Sphinx Moth, 170

    Spittle Insects, 172

    Squash Bugs, 175

    Stink Bugs, 175

    Swallow-tail Butterflies, 168
      Tiger, 168


    Third Party Bugs, 175

    Thistle Butterflies, 167

    Thysanoptera, 147, 171

    Tiger Swallow-tail, 168

    Toad Bugs, 174

    Treehoppers, 172


    Walking Sticks, 148, 150, 151

    Wasps, 154, 158, 159
      Mason, 158

    Water Boatmen, 174
      Striders, 174

    Weevils, 163
      Corn, 163
      Cotton Boll, 163
      Nut, 163
      Rice, 164

    White Butterflies, 167






DEAR CHILDREN:--You will like to know that the man who wrote these true
stories is himself one of the people he describes so pleasantly and so
lovingly for you. He hopes that when you have finished this book, the
Indians will seem to you very real and very friendly. He is not willing
that all your knowledge of the race that formerly possessed this
continent should come from the lips of strangers and enemies, or that
you should think of them as blood-thirsty and treacherous, as savage
and unclean.

War, you know, is always cruel, and it is true that there were stern
fighting men among the Indians, as well as among your own forefathers.
But there were also men of peace, men generous and kindly and
religious. There were tender mothers, and happy little ones, and a home
life that was pure and true. There were high ideals of loyalty and
honor. It will do you good and make you happier to read of these
things.

Perhaps you wonder how a "real, live Indian" could write a book. I will
tell you how. The story of this man's life is itself as wonderful as a
fairy tale. Born in a wigwam, as he has told you, and early left
motherless, he was brought up, like the little Hiawatha, by a good
grandmother. When he was four years old, war broke out between his
people and the United States government. The Indians were defeated and
many of them were killed. Some fled northward into Canada and took
refuge under the British flag, among them the writer of this book, with
his grandmother and an uncle. His father was captured by the whites.

After ten years of that wild life, now everywhere at an end, of which
he has given you a true picture in his books, his father, whom the good
President Lincoln had pardoned and released from the military prison,
made the long and dangerous journey to Canada to find and bring back
his youngest son. The Sioux were beginning to learn that the old life
must go, and that, if they were to survive at all, they must follow
"the white man's road," long and hard as it looked to a free people.
They were beginning to plow and sow and send their children to school.

Ohiyesa, the Winner, as the boy was called, came home with his father
to what was then Dakota Territory, to a little settlement of Sioux
homesteaders. Everything about the new life was strange to him, and at
first he did not like it at all. He had thoughts of running away and
making his way back to Canada. But his father, Many Lightnings, who had
been baptized a Christian under the name of Jacob Eastman, told him
that he, too, must take a new name, and he chose that of Charles
Alexander Eastman. He was told to cut off his long hair and put on
citizen's clothing. Then his father made him choose between going to
school and working at the plow.

Ohiyesa tried plowing for half a day. It was hard work to break the
tough prairie sod with his father's oxen and the strange implement they
gave him. He decided to try school. Rather to his surprise, he liked
it, and he kept on. His teachers were pleased with his progress, and
soon better opportunities opened to him. He was sent farther east to a
better school, where he continued to do well, and soon went higher. In
the long summer vacations he worked, on farms, in shops and offices;
and in winter he studied and played football and all the other games
you play, until after about fifteen or sixteen years he found himself
with the diplomas of a famous college and a great university, a
Bachelor of Science, a Doctor of Medicine, and a doubly educated
man--educated in the lore of the wilderness as well as in some of the
deepest secrets of civilization.

Since that day, a good many more years have passed. Ohiyesa, known as
Doctor Charles A. Eastman, has now a home and six children of his own
among the New England hills. He has hundreds of devoted friends of both
races. He is the author of five books which have been widely read, some
of them in England, France and Germany as well as in America, and he
speaks face to face to thousands of people every year. Perhaps some of
you have heard from his own lips his recollections of wild life. You
may find all the stories in this book, and many more of the same sort,
in the books called "Indian Boyhood," and "Old Indian Days," published
by Doubleday, Page and Company, of Garden City, L.I., who have kindly
consented to the publication of this little volume in order that the
children in our schools might read stories of real Indians by a real
Indian.




CONTENTS


PART ONE

MY INDIAN CHILDHOOD

CHAPTER                                                PAGE

  I. "THE PITIFUL LAST"                                   1

 II. EARLY HARDSHIPS                                      9

III. AN INDIAN SUGAR CAMP                                19

 IV. GAMES AND SPORTS                                    26

  V. AN INDIAN BOY'S TRAINING                            37

 VI. THE BOY HUNTER                                      48

VII. EVENING IN THE LODGE                                58


PART TWO

STORIES OF REAL INDIANS

  I. WINONA'S CHILDHOOD                                  75

 II. WINONA'S GIRLHOOD                                   83

III. A MIDSUMMER FEAST                                   93

 IV. THE FAITHFULNESS OF LONG EARS                      103

  V. SNANA'S FAWN                                       118

 VI. HAKADAH'S FIRST OFFERING                           131

VII. THE GRAVE OF THE DOG                               145






What boy would not be an Indian for a while when he thinks of the
freest life in the world? This life was mine. Every day there was a
real hunt. There was real game.

No people have a better use of their five senses than the children of
the wilderness. We could smell as well as hear and see. We could feel
and taste as well as we could see and hear. Nowhere has the memory been
more fully developed than in the wild life, and I can still see wherein
I owe much to my early training.

Of course I myself do not remember when I first saw the day, but my
brothers have often recalled the event with much mirth; for it was a
custom of the Sioux that when a boy was born his brother must plunge
into the water, or roll in the snow naked if it was winter time; and if
he was not big enough to do either of these himself, water was thrown
on him. If the new-born had a sister, she must be immersed. The idea
was that a warrior had come to camp, and the other children must
display some act of hardihood.

I was so unfortunate as to be the youngest of five children who, soon
after I was born, were left motherless. I had to bear the humiliating
name "Hak[=a]dah," meaning "the pitiful last," until I should earn a
more dignified and appropriate name. I was regarded as little more than
a plaything by the rest of the children.

The babe was done up as usual in a movable cradle made from an oak
board two and a half feet long and one and a half feet wide. On one
side of it was nailed with brass-headed tacks the richly embroidered
sack, which was open in front and laced up and down with buckskin
strings. Over the arms of the infant was a wooden bow, the ends of
which were firmly attached to the board, so that if the cradle should
fall the child's head and face would be protected. On this bow were
hung curious playthings--strings of artistically carved bones and hoofs
of deer, which rattled when the little hands moved them.

In this upright cradle I lived, played, and slept the greater part of
the time during the first few months of my life. Whether I was made to
lean against a lodge pole or was suspended from a bough of a tree,
while my grandmother cut wood, or whether I was carried on her back, or
conveniently balanced by another child in a similar cradle hung on the
opposite side of a pony, I was still in my oaken bed.

This grandmother, who had already lived through sixty years of
hardships, was a wonder to the young maidens of the tribe. She showed
no less enthusiasm over Hakadah than she had done when she held her
first-born, the boy's father, in her arms. Every little attention that
is due to a loved child she performed with much skill and devotion. She
made all my scanty garments and my tiny moccasins with a great deal of
taste. It was said by all that I could not have had more attention had
my mother been living.

Uncheedah (grandmother) was a great singer. Sometimes, when Hakadah
wakened too early in the morning, she would sing to him something like
the following lullaby:

    Sleep, sleep, my boy, the Chippewas
      Are far away--are far away.
    Sleep, sleep, my boy; prepare to meet
      The foe by day--the foe by day!
    The cowards will not dare to fight
      Till morning break--till morning break.
    Sleep, sleep, my child, while still 'tis night;
      Then bravely wake--then bravely wake!

The Dakota women were wont to cut and bring their fuel from the woods
and, in fact, to perform most of the drudgery of the camp. This of
necessity fell to their lot because the men must follow the game during
the day. Very often my grandmother carried me with her on these
excursions; and while she worked it was her habit to suspend me from a
wild grape vine or a springy bough, so that the least breeze would
swing the cradle to and fro.

She has told me that when I had grown old enough to take notice, I was
apparently capable of holding extended conversations in an unknown
dialect with birds and red squirrels. Once I fell asleep in my cradle,
suspended five or six feet from the ground, while Uncheedah was some
distance away, gathering birch bark for a canoe. A squirrel had found
it convenient to come upon the bow of my cradle and nibble his hickory
nut, until he awoke me by dropping the crumbs of his meal. It was a
common thing for birds to alight on my cradle in the woods.

After I left my cradle, I almost walked away from it, she told me. She
then began calling my attention to natural objects. Whenever I heard
the song of a bird, she would tell me what bird it came from, something
after this fashion:

"Hakadah, listen to Shechoka (the robin) calling his mate. He says he
has just found something good to eat." Or "Listen to Oopehanska (the
thrush); he is singing for his little wife. He will sing his best."
When in the evening the whippoorwill started his song with vim, no
further than a stone's throw from our tent in the woods, she would say
to me:

"Hush! It may be an Ojibway scout!"

Again, when I waked at midnight, she would say:

"Do not cry! Hinakaga (the owl) is watching you from the tree-top."

I usually covered up my head, for I had perfect faith in my
grandmother's admonitions, and she had given me a dreadful idea of this
bird. It was one of her legends that a little boy was once standing
just outside of the teepee (tent), crying vigorously for his mother,
when Hinakaga swooped down in the darkness and carried the poor little
fellow up into the trees. It was well known that the hoot of the owl
was commonly imitated by Indian scouts when on the war-path. There had
been dreadful massacres immediately following this call. Therefore it
was deemed wise to impress the sound early upon the mind of the child.

Indian children were trained so that they hardly ever cried much in the
night. This was very expedient and necessary in their exposed life. In
my infancy it was my grandmother's custom to put me to sleep, as she
said, with the birds, and to waken me with them, until it became a
habit. She did this with an object in view. An Indian must always rise
early. In the first place, as a hunter, he finds his game best at
daybreak. Secondly, other tribes, when on the war-path, usually make
their attack very early in the morning. Even when our people are moving
about leisurely, we like to rise before daybreak, in order to travel
when the air is cool, and unobserved, perchance, by our enemies.

As a little child, it was instilled into me to be silent and reticent.
This was one of the most important traits to form in the character of
the Indian. As a hunter and warrior it was considered absolutely
necessary to him, and was thought to lay the foundations of patience
and self-control.






One of the earliest recollections of my adventurous childhood is the
ride I had on a pony's side. I was passive in the whole matter. A
little girl cousin of mine was put in a bag and suspended from the horn
of an Indian saddle; but her weight must be balanced or the saddle
would not remain on the animal's back. Accordingly, I was put into
another sack and made to keep the saddle and the girl in position! I
did not object, for I had a very pleasant game of peek-a-boo with the
little girl, until we came to a big snow-drift, where the poor beast
was stuck fast and began to lie down. Then it was not so nice!

This was the convenient and primitive way in which some mothers packed
their children for winter journeys. However cold the weather might be,
the inmate of the fur-lined sack was usually very comfortable--at least
I used to think so. I believe I was accustomed to all the precarious
Indian conveyances, and, as a boy, I enjoyed the dog-travaux ride as
much as any. The travaux consisted of a set of rawhide strips securely
lashed to the tent-poles, which were harnessed to the sides of the
animal as if he stood between shafts, while the free ends were allowed
to drag on the ground. Both ponies and large dogs were used as beasts
of burden, and they carried in this way the smaller children as well as
the baggage.

This mode of travelling for children was possible only in the summer,
and as the dogs were sometimes unreliable, the little ones were exposed
to a certain amount of danger. For instance, whenever a train of dogs
had been travelling for a long time, almost perishing with the heat and
their heavy loads, a glimpse of water would cause them to forget all
their responsibilities. Some of them, in spite of the screams of the
women, would swim with their burdens into the cooling stream, and I was
thus, on more than one occasion, made to partake of an unwilling bath.

I was a little over four years old at the time of the "Sioux massacre"
in Minnesota. In the general turmoil, we took flight into British
Columbia, and the journey is still vividly remembered by all our
family. A yoke of oxen and a lumber-wagon were taken from some white
farmer and brought home for our conveyance.

How delighted I was when I learned that we were to ride behind those
wise-looking animals and in that gorgeously painted wagon! It seemed
almost like a living creature to me, this new vehicle with four legs,
and the more so when we got out of axle-grease and the wheels went
along squealing like pigs!

The boys found a great deal of innocent fun in jumping from the high
wagon while the oxen were leisurely moving along. My elder brothers
soon became experts. At last, I mustered up courage enough to join them
in this sport. I was sure they stepped on the wheel, so I cautiously
placed my moccasined foot upon it. Alas, before I could realize what
had happened, I was under the wheels, and had it not been for the
neighbor immediately behind us, I might have been run over by the next
team as well.

This was my first experience with a civilized vehicle. I cried out all
possible reproaches on the white man's team and concluded that a
dog-travaux was good enough for me. I was really rejoiced that we were
moving away from the people who made the wagon that had almost ended my
life, and it did not occur to me that I alone was to blame. I could not
be persuaded to ride in that wagon again and was glad when we finally
left it beside the Missouri river.

The summer after the "Minnesota massacre," General Sibley pursued our
people across this river. Now the Missouri is considered one of the
most treacherous rivers in the world. Even a good modern boat is not
safe upon its uncertain current. We were forced to cross in
buffalo-skin boats--as round as tubs!

The Washechu (white men) were coming in great numbers with their big
guns, and while most of our men were fighting them to gain time, the
women and the old men made and equipped the temporary boats, braced
with ribs of willow. Some of these were towed by two or three women or
men swimming in the water and some by ponies. It was not an easy matter
to keep them right side up, with their helpless freight of little
children and such goods as we possessed.

In our flight, we little folks were strapped in the saddles or held in
front of an older person, and in the long night marches to get away
from the soldiers, we suffered from loss of sleep and insufficient
food. Our meals were eaten hastily, and sometimes in the saddle. Water
was not always to be found. The people carried it with them in bags
formed of tripe or the dried pericardium of animals.

Now we were compelled to trespass upon the country of hostile tribes
and were harassed by them almost daily and nightly. Only the strictest
vigilance saved us.

One day we met with another enemy near the British lines. It was a
prairie fire. We were surrounded. Another fire was quickly made, which
saved our lives.

One of the most thrilling experiences of the following winter was a
blizzard, which overtook us in our wanderings. Here and there, a family
lay down in the snow, selecting a place where it was not likely to
drift much. For a day and a night we lay under the snow. Uncle stuck a
long pole beside us to tell us when the storm was over. We had plenty
of buffalo robes and the snow kept us warm, but we found it heavy.
After a time, it became packed and hollowed out around our bodies, so
that we were as comfortable as one can be under those circumstances.

The next day the storm ceased, and we discovered a large herd of
buffaloes almost upon us. We dug our way out, shot some of the
buffaloes, made a fire and enjoyed a good dinner.

I was now an exile as well as motherless; yet I was not unhappy. Our
wanderings from place to place afforded us many pleasant experiences
and quite as many hardships and misfortunes. There were times of plenty
and times of scarcity, and we had several narrow escapes from death. In
savage life, the early spring is the most trying time and almost all
the famines occurred at this period of the year.

The Indians are a patient and a clannish people; their love for one
another is stronger than that of any civilized people I know. If this
were not so, I believe there would have been tribes of cannibals among
them. White people have been known to kill and eat their companions in
preference to starving; but Indians--never!

In times of famine, the adults often denied themselves in order to make
the food last as long as possible for the children, who were not able
to bear hunger as well as the old. As a people, they can live without
food much longer than any other nation.

I once passed through one of these hard springs when we had nothing to
eat for several days. I well remember the six small birds which
constituted the breakfast for six families one morning; and then we had
no dinner or supper to follow! What a relief that was to me--although I
had only a small wing of a small bird for my share! Soon after this, we
came into a region where buffaloes were plenty, and hunger and scarcity
were forgotten.

Such was the Indians' wild life! When game was to be had and the sun
shone, they easily forgot the bitter experiences of the winter before.
Little preparation was made for the future. They are children of
Nature, and occasionally she whips them with the lashes of experience,
yet they are forgetful and careless. Much of their suffering might have
been prevented by a little calculation.

During the summer, when Nature is at her best, and provides abundantly
for the savage, it seems to me that no life is happier than his! Food
is free--lodging free--everything free! All were alike rich in the
summer, and, again, all were alike poor in the winter and early spring.
However, their diseases were fewer and not so destructive as now, and
the Indian's health was generally good. The Indian boy enjoyed such a
life as almost all boys dream of and would choose for themselves if
they were permitted to do so.

The raids made upon our people by other tribes were frequent, and we
had to be constantly on the watch. I remember at one time a night
attack was made upon our camp and all our ponies stampeded. Only a few
of them were recovered, and our journeys after this misfortune were
effected mostly by means of the dog-travaux.

The second winter after the massacre, my father and my two older
brothers, with several others, were betrayed by a half-breed at
Winnipeg to the United States authorities. As I was then living with my
uncle in another part of the country, I became separated from them for
ten years. During all this time we believed that they had been killed
by the whites, and I was taught that I must avenge their deaths as soon
as I was able to go upon the war-path.







With the first March thaw the thoughts of the Indian women of my
childhood days turned promptly to the annual sugar-making. This
industry was chiefly followed by the old men and women and the
children. The rest of the tribe went out upon the spring fur-hunt at
this season, leaving us at home to make the sugar.

The first and most important of the necessary utensils were the huge
iron and brass kettles for boiling. Everything else could be made, but
these must be bought, begged or borrowed. A maple tree was felled and a
log canoe hollowed out, into which the sap was to be gathered. Little
troughs of basswood and birchen basins were also made to receive the
sweet drops as they trickled from the tree.

As soon as these labors were accomplished, we all proceeded to the bark
sugar house, which stood in the midst of a fine grove of maples on the
bank of the Minnesota river. We found this hut partially filled with
the snows of winter and the withered leaves of the preceding autumn,
and it must be cleared for our use. In the meantime a tent was pitched
outside for a few days' occupancy. The snow was still deep in the
woods, with a solid crust upon which we could easily walk; for we
usually moved to the sugar house before the sap had actually started,
the better to complete our preparations.

My grandmother did not confine herself to canoe-making. She also
collected a good supply of fuel for the fires, for she would not have
much time to gather wood when the sap began to flow. Presently the
weather moderated and the snow began to melt. The month of April
brought showers which carried most of it off into the Minnesota river.
Now the women began to test the trees--moving leisurely among them, axe
in hand, and striking a single quick blow, to see if the sap would
appear. Trees, like people, have their individual characters; some were
ready to yield up their life-blood, while others were more reluctant.
Now one of the birchen basins was set under each tree, and a hardwood
chip driven deep into the cut which the axe had made. From the corners
of this chip--at first drop by drop, then, more freely--the sap
trickled into the little dishes.

It is usual to make sugar from maples, but several other trees were
also tapped by the Indians. From the birch and ash was made a
dark-colored sugar, with a somewhat bitter taste, which was used for
medicinal purposes. The box-elder yielded a beautiful white sugar,
whose only fault was that there was never enough of it!

A long fire was now made in the sugar house, and a row of brass kettles
suspended over the blaze. The sap was collected by the women in tin or
birchen buckets and poured into the canoes, from which the kettles were
kept filled. The hearts of the boys beat high with pleasant
anticipations when they heard the welcome hissing sound of the boiling
sap! Each boy claimed one kettle for his especial charge. It was his
duty to see that the fire was kept under it, to watch lest it boil
over, and finally, when the sap became sirup, to test it upon the snow,
dipping it out with a wooden paddle. So frequent were these tests that
for the first day or two we consumed nearly all that could be made; and
it was not until the sweetness began to pall that my grandmother set
herself in earnest to store up sugar for future use. She made it into
cakes of various forms, in birchen molds, and sometimes in hollow canes
or reeds, and the bills of ducks and geese. Some of it was pulverized
and packed in rawhide cases. Being a prudent woman, she did not give it
to us after the first month or so, except upon special occasions, and
it was thus made to last almost the year around. The smaller candies
were reserved as an occasional treat for the little fellows, and the
sugar was eaten at feasts with wild rice or parched corn, and also with
pounded dried meat. Coffee and tea, with their substitutes, were all
unknown to us in those days.

Every pursuit has its trials and anxieties. My grandmother's special
tribulations, during the sugaring season, were the upsetting and
gnawing of holes in her birch-bark pans. The transgressors were the
rabbit and squirrel tribes, and we little boys for once became useful,
in shooting them with our bows and arrows. We hunted all over the sugar
camp, until the little creatures were fairly driven out of the
neighborhood. Occasionally one of my older brothers brought home a
rabbit or two, and then we had a feast.

I remember on this occasion of our last sugar bush in Minnesota, that I
stood one day outside of our hut and watched the approach of a
visitor--a bent old man, his hair almost white, and carrying on his
back a large bundle of red willow, or kinnikinick, which the Indians
use for smoking. He threw down his load at the door and thus saluted
us: "You have indeed perfect weather for sugar-making."

It was my great-grandfather, Cloud Man, whose original village was on
the shores of Lakes Calhoun and Harriet, now in the suburbs of the city
of Minneapolis. He was the first Sioux chief to welcome the Protestant
missionaries among his people, and a well-known character in those
pioneer days. He brought us word that some of the peaceful sugar-makers
near us on the river had been attacked and murdered by roving Ojibways.
This news disturbed us not a little, for we realized that we too might
become the victims of an Ojibway war party. Therefore we all felt some
uneasiness from this time until we returned heavy laden to our village.






The Indian boy was a prince of the wilderness. He had but very little
work to do during the period of his boyhood. His principal occupation
was the practice of a few simple arts in warfare and the chase. Aside
from this, he was master of his time.

It is true that our savage life was a precarious one, and full of
dreadful catastrophes; however, this never prevented us from enjoying
our sports to the fullest extent. As we left our teepees in the
morning, we were never sure that our scalps would not dangle from a
pole in the afternoon! It was an uncertain life, to be sure. Yet we
observed that the fawns skipped and played happily while the gray
wolves might be peeping forth from behind the hills, ready to tear them
limb from limb.

Our sports were molded by the life and customs of our people; indeed,
we practiced only what we expected to do when grown. Our games were
feats with the bow and arrow, foot and pony races, wrestling, swimming
and imitation of the customs and habits of our fathers. We had sham
fights with mud balls and willow wands; we played lacrosse, made war
upon bees, shot winter arrows (which were used only in that season),
and coasted upon the ribs of animals and buffalo robes.

No sooner did the boys get together than, as a usual thing, they
divided into squads and chose sides; then a leading arrow was shot at
random into the air. Before it fell to the ground a volley from the
bows of the participants followed. Each player was quick to note the
direction and speed of the leading arrow and he tried to send his own
at the same speed and at an equal height, so that when it fell it would
be closer to the first than any of the others.

It was considered out of place to shoot by first sighting the object
aimed at. This was usually impracticable in actual life, because the
object was almost always in motion, while the hunter himself was often
upon the back of a pony at full gallop. Therefore, it was the off-hand
shot that the Indian boy sought to master. There was another game with
arrows that was characterized by gambling, and was generally confined
to the men.

The races were an every-day occurrence. At noon the boys were usually
gathered by some pleasant sheet of water, and as soon as the ponies
were watered, they were allowed to graze for an hour or two, while the
boys stripped for their noonday sports. A boy might say to some other
whom he considered his equal:

"I can't run; but I will challenge you to fifty paces."

A former hero, when beaten, would often explain his defeat by saying:
"I drank too much water."

Boys of all ages were paired for a "spin," and the little red men
cheered on their favorites with spirit.

As soon as this was ended, the pony races followed. All the speedy
ponies were picked out and riders chosen. If a boy declined to ride,
there would be shouts of derision.

Last of all came the swimming. A little urchin would hang to his pony's
long tail, while the latter, with only his head above water, glided
sportively along. Finally the animals were driven into a fine field of
grass and we turned our attention to other games.

The "mud-and-willow" fight was rather a severe and dangerous sport. A
lump of soft clay was stuck on the end of a limber and springy willow
wand and thrown as boys throw apples from sticks, with considerable
force. When there were fifty or a hundred players on each side, the
battle became warm; but anything to arouse the bravery of Indian boys
seemed to them a good and wholesome diversion.

Wrestling was largely indulged in by us all. It may seem odd, but
wrestling was done by a great many boys at once--from ten to any number
on a side. It was really a battle, in which each one chose his
opponent. The rule was that if a boy sat down, he was let alone, but as
long as he remained standing within the field, he was open to an
attack. No one struck with the hand, but all manner of tripping with
legs and feet and butting with the knees was allowed. Altogether it was
an exhausting pastime--fully equal to the American game of football,
and only the young athlete could really enjoy it.

One of our most curious sports was a war upon the nests of wild bees.
We imagined ourselves about to make an attack upon the Ojibways or some
tribal foe. We all painted and stole cautiously upon the nest; then,
with a rush and war-whoop, sprang upon the object of our attack and
endeavored to destroy it. But it seemed that the bees were always on
the alert and never entirely surprised, for they always raised quite as
many scalps as did their bold assailants! After the onslaught upon the
nest was ended, we usually followed it by a pretended scalp dance.

On the occasion of my first experience in this mode of warfare, there
were two other little boys who were also novices. One of them
particularly was really too young to indulge in an exploit of that
kind. As it was the custom of our people, when they killed or wounded
an enemy on the battle-field, to announce the act in a loud voice, we
did the same. My friend, Little Wound (as I will call him, for I do not
remember his name), being quite small, was unable to reach the nest
until it had been well trampled upon and broken and the insects had
made a counter charge with such vigor as to repulse and scatter our
numbers in every direction. However, he evidently did not want to
retreat without any honors; so he bravely jumped upon the nest and
yelled:

"I, the brave Little Wound, to-day kill the only fierce enemy!"


Scarcely were the last words uttered when he screamed as if stabbed to
the heart. One of his older companions shouted:

"Dive into the water! Run! Dive into the water!" for there was a lake
near by. This advice he obeyed.

When we had reassembled and were indulging in our mimic dance, Little
Wound was not allowed to dance. He was considered not to be in
existence--he had been killed by our enemies, the Bee tribe. Poor
little fellow! His swollen face was sad and ashamed as he sat on a
fallen log and watched the dance. Although he might well have styled
himself one of the noble dead who had died for their country, yet he
was not unmindful that he had _screamed_, and this weakness would be
apt to recur to him many times in the future.

We had some quiet plays which we alternated with the more severe and
warlike ones. Among them were throwing wands and snow-arrows. In the
winter we coasted much. We had no "double-rippers" or toboggans, but
six or seven of the long ribs of a buffalo, fastened together at the
larger end, answered all practical purposes. Sometimes a strip of
bass-wood bark, four feet long and about six inches wide, was used with
considerable skill. We stood on one end and held the other, using the
slippery inside of the bark for the outside, and thus coasting down
long hills with remarkable speed.

The spinning of tops was one of the all-absorbing winter sports. We
made our tops heart-shaped of wood, horn or bone. We whipped them with
a long thong of buckskin. The handle was a stick about a foot long and
sometimes we whittled the stick to make it spoon-shaped at one end.

We played games with these tops--two to fifty boys at one time. Each
whips his top until it hums; then one takes the lead and the rest
follow in a sort of obstacle race. The top must spin all the way
through. There were bars of snow over which we must pilot our top in
the spoon end of our whip; then again we would toss it in the air on to
another open spot of ice or smooth snow-crust from twenty to fifty
paces away. The top that holds out the longest is the winner.

We loved to play in the water. When we had no ponies, we often had
swimming matches of our own, and sometimes made rafts with which we
crossed lakes and rivers. It was a common thing to "duck" a young or
timid boy or to carry him into deep water to struggle as best he might.

I remember a perilous ride with a companion on an unmanageable log,
when we were both less than seven years old. The older boys had put us
on this uncertain bark and pushed us out into the swift current of the
river. I cannot speak for my comrade in distress, but I can say now
that I would rather ride on a swift bronco any day than try to stay on
and steady a short log in a river. I never knew how we managed to
prevent a shipwreck on that voyage and to reach the shore.

We had many curious wild pets. There were young foxes, bears, wolves,
raccoons, fawns, buffalo calves and birds of all kinds, tamed by
various boys. My pets were different at different times, but I
particularly remember one. I once had a grizzly bear for a pet, and so
far as he and I were concerned, our relations were charming and very
close. But I hardly know whether he made more enemies for me or I for
him. It was his habit to treat every boy unmercifully who injured me.





Very early, the Indian boy assumed the task of preserving and
transmitting the legends of his ancestors and his race. Almost every
evening a myth, or a true story of some deed done in the past, was
narrated by one of the parents or grand-parents, while the boy listened
with parted lips and glistening eyes. On the following evening, he was
usually required to repeat it. If he was not an apt scholar, he
struggled long with his task; but, as a rule, the Indian boy is a good
listener and has a good memory, so that the stories were tolerably well
mastered. The household became his audience, by which he was
alternately criticized and applauded.

This sort of teaching at once enlightens the boy's mind and stimulates
his ambition. His conception of his own future career becomes a vivid
and irresistible force. Whatever there is for him to learn must be
learned; whatever qualifications are necessary to a truly great man he
must seek at any expense of danger and hardship. Such was the feeling
of the imaginative and brave young Indian. It became apparent to him in
early life that he must accustom himself to rove alone and not to fear
or dislike the impression of solitude.

It seems to be a popular idea that all the characteristic skill of the
Indian is instinctive and hereditary. This is a mistake. All the
stoicism and patience of the Indian are acquired traits, and continual
practice alone makes him master of the art of wood-craft. Physical
training and dieting were not neglected. I remember that I was not
allowed to have beef soup or any warm drink. The soup was for the old
men. General rules for the young were never to take their food very
hot, nor to drink much water.

My uncle, who educated me up to the age of fifteen years, was a strict
disciplinarian and a good teacher. When I left the teepee in the
morning, he would say: "Hakadah, look closely to everything you see";
and at evening, on my return, he used often to catechize me for an hour
or so.

"On which side of the trees is the lighter-colored bark? On which side
do they have most regular branches?"

It was his custom to let me name all the new birds that I had seen
during the day. I would name them according to the color or the shape
of the bill or their song or the appearance and locality of the
nest--in fact, anything about the bird that impressed me as
characteristic. I made many ridiculous errors, I must admit. He then
usually informed me of the correct name. Occasionally I made a hit and
this he would warmly commend.

He went much deeper into this science when I was a little older, that
is, about the age of eight or nine years. He would say, for instance:

"How do you know that there are fish in yonder lake?"

"Because they jump out of the water for flies at mid-day."

He would smile at my prompt but superficial reply.

"What do you think of the little pebbles grouped together under the
shallow water? and what made the pretty curved marks in the sandy
bottom and the little sand-banks? Where do you find the fish-eating
birds? Have the inlet and the outlet of a lake anything to do with the
question?"

He did not expect a correct reply at once to all the questions that he
put to me on these occasions, but he meant to make me observant and a
good student of nature.

"Hakadah," he would say to me, "you ought to follow the example of the
shunktokecha (wolf). Even when he is surprised and runs for his life,
he will pause to take one more look at you before he enters his final
retreat. So you must take a second look at everything you see.

"It is better to view animals unobserved. I have been a witness to
their courtships and their quarrels and have learned many of their
secrets in this way. I was once the unseen spectator of a thrilling
battle between a pair of grizzly bears and three buffaloes--a rash act
for the bears, for it was in the moon of strawberries, when the
buffaloes sharpen and polish their horns for bloody contests among
themselves.

"I advise you, my boy, never to approach a grizzly's den from the
front, but to steal up behind and throw your blanket or a stone in
front of the hole. He does not usually rush for it, but first puts his
head out and listens and then comes out very indifferently and sits on
his haunches on the mound in front of the hole before he makes any
attack. While he is exposing himself in this fashion, aim at his heart.
Always be as cool as the animal himself." Thus he armed me against the
cunning of savage beasts by teaching me how to outwit them.

"In hunting," he would resume, "you will be guided by the habits of the
animal you seek. Remember that a moose stays in swampy or low land or
between high mountains near a spring or lake, for thirty to sixty days
at a time. Most large game moves about continually, except the doe in
the spring; it is then a very easy matter to find her with the fawn.
Conceal yourself in a convenient place as soon as you observe any signs
of the presence of either, and then call with your birchen doe-caller.

"Whichever one hears you first will soon appear in your neighborhood.
But you must be very watchful, or you may be made a fawn of by a large
wild-cat. They understand the characteristic call of the doe perfectly
well.

"When you have any difficulty with a bear or a wild-cat--that is, if
the creature shows any signs of attacking you--you must make him fully
understand that you have seen him and are aware of his intentions. If
you are not well equipped for a pitched battle, the only way to make
him retreat is to take a long sharp-pointed pole for a spear and rush
toward him. No wild beast will face this unless he is cornered and
already wounded. These fierce beasts are generally afraid of the common
weapon of the larger animals,--the horns,--and if these are very long
and sharp, they dare not risk an open fight.

"There is one exception to this rule--the gray wolf will attack
fiercely when very hungry. But their courage depends upon their
numbers; in this they are like white men. One wolf or two will never
attack a man. They will stampede a herd of buffaloes in order to get at
the calves; they will rush upon a herd of antelopes, for these are
helpless; but they are always careful about attacking man."

Of this nature were the instructions of my uncle, who was widely known
at that time as among the greatest hunters of his tribe.

All boys were expected to endure hardship without complaint. In savage
warfare, a young man must, of course, be an athlete and used to
undergoing all sorts of privations. He must be able to go without food
and water for two or three days without displaying any weakness, or to
run for a day and a night without any rest. He must be able to traverse
a pathless and wild country without losing his way either in the day or
night time. He cannot refuse to do any of these things if he aspires to
be a warrior.

Sometimes my uncle would waken me very early in the morning and
challenge me to fast with him all day. I had to accept the challenge.
We blackened our faces with charcoal, so that every boy in the village
would know that I was fasting for the day. Then the little tempters
would make my life a misery until the merciful sun hid behind the
western hills.

I can scarcely recall the time when my stern teacher began to give
sudden war-whoops over my head in the morning while I was sound asleep.
He expected me to leap up with perfect presence of mind, always ready
to grasp a weapon of some sort and to give a shrill whoop in reply. If
I was sleepy or startled and hardly knew what I was about, he would
ridicule me and say that I need never expect to sell my scalp dear.
Often he would vary these tactics by shooting off his gun just outside
of the lodge while I was yet asleep, at the same time giving
blood-curdling yells. After a time I became used to this.

When Indians went upon the war-path, it was their custom to try the new
warriors thoroughly before coming to an engagement. For instance, when
they were near a hostile camp, they would select the novices to go
after the water and make them do all sorts of things to prove their
courage. In accordance with this idea, my uncle used to send me off
after water when we camped after dark in a strange place. Perhaps the
country was full of wild beasts, and, for aught I knew, there might be
scouts from hostile bands of Indians lurking in that very neighborhood.

Yet I never objected, for that would show cowardice. I picked my way
through the woods, dipped my pail in the water and hurried back, always
careful to make as little noise as a cat. Being only a boy, my heart
would leap at every crackling of a dry twig or distant hooting of an
owl, until, at last, I reached our teepee. Then my uncle would perhaps
say: "Ah, Hakadah, you are a thorough warrior!" empty out the precious
contents of the pail, and order me to go a second time.

Imagine how I felt! But I wished to be a brave man as much as a white
boy desires to be a great lawyer or even President of the United
States. Silently I would take the pail and endeavor to retrace my
foot-steps in the dark.

With all this, our manners and morals were not neglected. I was made to
respect the adults and especially the aged. I was not allowed to join
in their discussions, nor even to speak in their presence, unless
requested to do so. Indian etiquette was very strict, and among the
requirements was that of avoiding the direct address. A term of
relationship or some title of courtesy was commonly used instead of the
personal name by those who wished to show respect. We were taught
generosity to the poor and reverence for the "Great Mystery." Religion
was the basis of all Indian training.







There was almost as much difference between the Indian boys who were
brought up on the open prairies and those of the woods, as between city
and country boys. The hunting of the prairie boys was limited and their
knowledge of natural history imperfect. They were, as a rule, good
riders, but in all-round physical development much inferior to the red
men of the forest.

Our hunting varied with the season of the year, and the nature of the
country which was for the time our home. Our chief weapon was the bow
and arrows, and perhaps, if we were lucky, a knife was possessed by
some one in the crowd. In the olden times, knives and hatchets were
made from bone and sharp stones.

For fire we used a flint with a spongy piece of dry wood and a stone to
strike with. Another way of starting fire was for several of the boys
to sit down in a circle and rub two pieces of dry, spongy wood
together, one after another, until the wood took fire.

We hunted in company a great deal, though it was a common thing for a
boy to set out for the woods quite alone, and he usually enjoyed
himself fully as much. Our game consisted mainly of small birds,
rabbits, squirrels and grouse. Fishing, too, occupied much of our time.
We hardly ever passed a creek or a pond without searching for some
signs of fish. When fish were present, we always managed to get some.
Fish-lines were made of wild hemp, sinew or horse-hair. We either
caught fish with lines, snared or speared them, or shot them with bow
and arrows. In the fall we charmed them up to the surface by gently
tickling them with a stick and quickly threw them out. We have
sometimes dammed the brooks and driven the larger fish into a willow
basket made for that purpose.

It was part of our hunting to find new and strange things in the woods.
We examined the slightest sign of life; and if a bird had scratched the
leaves off the ground, or a bear dragged up a root for his morning
meal, we stopped to speculate on the time it was done. If we saw a
large old tree with some scratches on its bark, we concluded that a
bear or some raccoons must be living there. In that case we did not go
any nearer than was necessary, but later reported the incident at home.
An old deer-track would at once bring on a warm discussion as to
whether it was the track of a buck or a doe. Generally, at noon, we met
and compared our game, noting at the same time the peculiar
characteristics of everything we had killed. It was not merely a hunt,
for we combined with it the study of animal life. We also kept strict
account of our game, and thus learned who were the best shots among the
boys.

I am sorry to say that we were merciless toward the birds. We often
took their eggs and their young ones. My brother Chatanna and I once
had a disagreeable adventure while bird-hunting. We were accustomed to
catch in our hands young ducks and geese during the summer, and while
doing this we happened to find a crane's nest. Of course, we were
delighted with our good luck. But, as it was already midsummer, the
young cranes--two in number--were rather large and they were a little
way from the nest; we also observed that the two old cranes were in a
swampy place near by; but, as it was moulting-time, we did not suppose
that they would venture on dry land. So we proceeded to chase the young
birds; but they were fleet runners and it took us some time to come up
with them.

Meanwhile, the parent birds had heard the cries of their little ones
and come to their rescue. They were chasing us, while we followed the
birds. It was really a perilous encounter! Our strong bows finally
gained the victory in a hand-to-hand struggle with the angry cranes;
but after that we hardly ever hunted a crane's nest. Almost all birds
make some resistance when their eggs or young are taken, but they will
seldom attack man fearlessly.

We used to climb large trees for birds of all kinds; but we never
undertook to get young owls unless they were on the ground. The hooting
owl especially is a dangerous bird to attack under these circumstances.

I was once trying to catch a yellow-winged woodpecker in its nest when
my arm became twisted and lodged in the deep hole so that I could not
get it out without the aid of a knife; but we were a long way from home
and my only companion was a deaf-mute cousin of mine. I was about fifty
feet up in the tree, in a very uncomfortable position, but I had to
wait there for more than an hour before he brought me the knife with
which I finally released myself.

Our devices for trapping small animals were rude, but they were often
successful. For instance, we used to gather up a peck or so of large,
sharp-pointed burrs and scatter them in the rabbit's furrow-like path.
In the morning, we would find the little fellow sitting quietly in his
tracks, unable to move, for the burrs stuck to his feet.

Another way of snaring rabbits and grouse was the following: We made
nooses of twisted horse-hair, which we tied very firmly to the top of a
limber young tree, then bent the latter down to the track and fastened
the whole with a slip-knot, after adjusting the noose. When the rabbit
runs his head through the noose, he pulls the slip-knot and is quickly
carried up by the spring of the young tree. This is a good plan, for
the rabbit is out of harm's way as he swings high in the air.

Perhaps the most enjoyable of all was the chipmunk hunt. We killed
these animals at any time of year, but the special time to hunt them
was in March. After the first thaw, the chipmunks burrow a hole through
the snow crust and make their first appearance for the season.
Sometimes as many as fifty will come together and hold a social
reunion. These gatherings occur early in the morning, from daybreak to
about nine o'clock.

We boys learned this, among other secrets of nature, and got our
blunt-headed arrows together in good season for the chipmunk
expedition.

We generally went in groups of six to a dozen or fifteen, to see which
would get the most. On the evening before, we selected several boys who
could imitate the chipmunk's call with wild oat-straws and each of
these provided himself with a supply of straws.

The crust will hold the boys nicely at this time of the year. Bright
and early, they all come together at the appointed place, from which
each group starts out in a different direction, agreeing to meet
somewhere at a given position of the sun.

My first experience of this kind is still well remembered. It was a
fine crisp March morning, and the sun had not yet shown himself among
the distant tree-tops as we hurried along through the ghostly wood.
Presently we arrived at a place where there were many signs of the
animals. Then each of us selected a tree and took up his position
behind it. The chipmunk-caller sat upon a log as motionless as he
could, and began to call.

Soon we heard the patter of little feet on the hard snow; then we saw
the chipmunks approaching from all directions. Some stopped and ran
experimentally up a tree or a log, as if uncertain of the exact
direction of the call; others chased one another about.

In a few minutes, the chipmunk-caller was besieged with them. Some ran
all over his person, others under him and still others ran up the tree
against which he was sitting. Each boy remained immovable until their
leader gave the signal; then a great shout arose, and the chipmunks in
their flight all ran up the different trees.

Now the shooting-match began. The little creatures seemed to realize
their hopeless position; they would try again and again to come down
the trees and flee away from the deadly aim of the youthful hunters.
But they were shot down very fast; and whenever several of them rushed
toward the ground, the little redskin hugged the tree and yelled
frantically to scare them up again.

Each boy shoots always against the trunk of the tree, so that the arrow
may bound back to him every time; otherwise, when he had shot away all
of them, he would be helpless, and another, who had cleared his own
tree, would come and take away his game, so there was warm competition.
Sometimes a desperate chipmunk would jump from the top of the tree in
order to escape, which was considered a joke on the boy who lost it and
a triumph for the brave little animal. At last all were killed or gone,
and then we went on to another place, keeping up the sport until the
sun came out and the chipmunks refused to answer the call.







I had been skating on that part of the lake where there was an
overflow, and came home somewhat cold. I cannot say just how cold it
was, but it must have been intensely so, for the trees were cracking
all about me like pistol-shots. I did not mind, because I was wrapped
up in my buffalo robe with the hair inside, and a wide leather belt
held it about my loins. My skates were nothing more than strips of
basswood bark bound upon my feet.

I had taken off my frozen moccasins and put on dry ones in their
places.

"Where have you been and what have you been doing?" Uncheedah asked as
she placed before me some roast venison in a wooden bowl. "Did you see
any tracks of moose or bear?"

"No, grandmother, I have only been playing at the lower end of the
lake. I have something to ask you," I said, eating my dinner and supper
together with all the relish of a hungry boy who has been skating in
the cold for half a day.

"I found this feather, grandmother, and I could not make out what tribe
wear feathers in that shape."

"Ugh, I am not a man; you had better ask your uncle. Besides, you
should know it yourself by this time. You are now old enough to think
about eagle feathers."

I felt mortified by this reminder of my ignorance. It seemed a
reflection on me that I was not ambitious enough to have found all such
matters out before.

"Uncle, you will tell me, won't you?" I said, in an appealing tone.

"I am surprised, my boy, that you should fail to recognize this
feather. It is a Cree medicine feather, and not a warrior's."

"Then," I said, with much embarrassment, "you had better tell me again,
uncle, the language of the feathers. I have really forgotten it all."

The day was now gone; the moon had risen; but the cold had not
lessened, for the trunks of the trees were still snapping all around
our teepee, which was lighted and warmed by the immense logs which
Uncheedah's industry had provided. My uncle, White Footprint, now
undertook to explain to me the significance of the eagle's feather.

"The eagle is the most war-like bird," he began, "and the most kingly
of all birds; besides, his feathers are unlike any others, and these
are the reasons why they are used by our people to signify deeds of
bravery.

"It is not true that when a man wears a feather bonnet, each one of the
feathers represents the killing of a foe or even a _coup_. When a man
wears an eagle feather upright upon his head, he is supposed to have
counted one of four _coups_ upon his enemy."

"Well, then, a _coup_ does not mean the killing of an enemy?"

"No, it is the after-stroke or touching of the body after he falls. It
is so ordered, because oftentimes the touching of an enemy is much more
difficult to accomplish than the shooting of one from a distance. It
requires a strong heart to face the whole body of the enemy, in order
to count the _coup_ on the fallen one, who lies under cover of his
kinsmen's fire. Many a brave man has been lost in the attempt.

"When a warrior approaches his foe, dead or alive, he calls upon the
other warriors to witness by saying: 'I, Fearless Bear, your brave,
again perform the brave deed of counting the first (or second or third
or fourth) _coup_ upon the body of the bravest of your enemies.'
Naturally, those who are present will see the act and be able to
testify to it. When they return, the heralds, as you know, announce
publicly all such deeds of valor, which then become a part of the man's
war record. Any brave who would wear the eagle's feather must give
proof of his right to do so.

"When a brave is wounded in the same battle where he counted his
_coup_, he wears the feather hanging downward. When he is wounded, but
makes no count, he trims his feather, and in that case it need not be
an eagle feather. All other feathers are merely ornaments. When a
warrior wears a feather with a round mark, it means that he slew his
enemy. When the mark is cut into the feather and painted red, it means
that he took the scalp.

"A brave who has been successful in ten battles is entitled to a
war-bonnet; and if he is a recognized leader, he is permitted to wear
one with long, trailing plumes. Also those who have counted many
_coups_ may tip the ends of the feathers with bits of white or colored
down. Sometimes the eagle feather is tipped with a strip of weasel
skin; that means the wearer had the honor of killing, scalping and
counting the first _coup_ upon the enemy all at the same time.

"This feather you have found was worn by a Cree--it is indiscriminately
painted. All other feathers worn by the common Indians mean nothing,"
he added.

"Tell me, uncle, whether it would be proper for me to wear any feathers
at all if I have never gone upon the war-path."

"You could wear any other kind of feathers, but not an eagle's,"
replied my uncle, "although sometimes one is worn on great occasions by
the child of a noted man, to indicate the father's dignity and
position."

The fire had gone down somewhat, so I pushed the embers together and
wrapped my robe more closely about me. Now and then the ice on the lake
would burst with a loud report like thunder. Uncheedah was busy
re-stringing one of uncle's old snow-shoes. There were two different
kinds that he wore; one with a straight toe and long; the other shorter
and with an upturned toe. She had one of the shoes fastened toe down,
between sticks driven into the ground, while she put in some new
strings and tightened the others. Aunt Four Stars was beading a new
pair of moccasins.

Wabeda, the dog, the companion of my boyhood days, was in trouble
because he insisted upon bringing his extra bone into the teepee, while
Uncheedah was determined that he should not. I sympathized with him,
because I saw the matter as he did. If he should bury it in the snow
outside, I knew Shunktokecha (the coyote) would surely steal it. I knew
just how anxious Wabeda was about his bone. It was a fat bone--I mean a
bone of a fat deer; and all Indians know how much better they are than
the other kind.

Wabeda always hated to see a good thing go to waste. His eyes spoke
words to me, for he and I had been friends for a long time. When I was
afraid of anything in the woods, he would get in front of me at once
and gently wag his tail. He always made it a point to look directly in
my face. His kind, large eyes gave me a thousand assurances. When I was
perplexed, he would hang about me until he understood the situation.
Many times I believed he saved my life by uttering the dog word in
time.

Most animals, even the dangerous grizzly, do not care to be seen when
the two-legged kind and his dog are about. When I feared a surprise by
a bear or a gray wolf, I would say to Wabeda: "Now, my dog, give your
war-whoop!" and immediately he would sit up on his haunches and bark
"to beat the band," as you white boys say. When a bear or wolf heard
the noise, he would be apt to retreat.

Sometimes I helped Wabeda and gave a war-whoop of my own. This drove
the deer away as well, but it relieved my mind.

When he appealed to me on this occasion, therefore, I said: "Come, my
dog, let us bury your bone so that no Shunktokecha will take it."

He appeared satisfied with my suggestion, so we went out together.

We dug in the snow and buried our bone wrapped up in a piece of old
blanket, partly burned; then we covered it up again with snow. We knew
that the coyote would not touch anything burnt. I did not put it up a
tree because Wabeda always objected to that, and I made it a point to
consult his wishes whenever I could.

I came in and Wabeda followed me with two short rib bones in his mouth.
Apparently he did not care to risk those delicacies.

"There," exclaimed Uncheedah, "you still insist upon bringing in some
sort of bone!" but I begged her to let him gnaw them inside because it
was so cold. Having been granted this privilege, he settled himself at
my back and I became absorbed in some specially nice arrows that uncle
was making.

"Oh, uncle, you must put on three feathers to all of them so that they
can fly straight," I suggested.

"Yes, but if there are only two feathers, they will fly faster," he
answered.

"Woow!" Wabeda uttered his suspicions.

"Woow!" he said again, and rushed for the entrance of the teepee. He
kicked me over as he went and scattered the burning embers.

"En na he na!" Uncheedah exclaimed, but he was already outside.

"Wow, wow, wow! Wow, wow, wow!"

A deep guttural voice answered him. Out I rushed with my bow and arrows
in my hand.

"Come, uncle, come! A big cinnamon bear!" I shouted as I emerged from
the teepee.

Uncle sprang out, and in a moment he had sent a swift arrow through the
bear's heart. The animal fell dead. He had just begun to dig up
Wabeda's bone, when the dog's quick ear had heard the sound.

"Ah, uncle, Wabeda and I ought to have at least a little eaglet's
feather for this! I too sent my small arrow into the bear before he
fell," I exclaimed. "But I thought all bears ought to be in their
lodges in the winter time. What was this one doing at this time of the
year and night?"

"Well," said my uncle, "I will tell you. Among the tribes, some are
naturally lazy. The cinnamon bear is the lazy one of his tribe. He
alone sleeps out of doors in the winter, and because he has not a warm
bed, he is soon hungry. Sometimes he lives in the hollow trunk of a
tree, where he has made a bed of dry grass; but when the night is very
cold, like to-night, he has to move about to keep himself from
freezing, and as he prowls around, he gets hungry."

We dragged the huge carcass within our lodge. "Oh, what nice claws he
has, uncle!" I exclaimed eagerly. "Can I have them for my necklace?"



"It is only the old medicine-men who wear them regularly. The son of a
great warrior who has killed a grizzly may wear them upon a public
occasion," he explained.

"And you are just like my father and are considered the best hunter
among the Santees and Sissetons. You have killed many grizzlies, so
that no one can object to my bear's-claw necklace," I said appealingly.

White Foot-print smiled. "My boy, you shall have them," he said, "but
it is always better to earn them yourself." He cut the claws off
carefully for my use.

"Tell me, uncle, whether you could wear these claws all the time?" I
asked.

"Yes, I am entitled to wear them, but they are so heavy and
uncomfortable," he replied, with a superior air.

At last the bear had been skinned and dressed and we all resumed our
usual places. Uncheedah was particularly pleased to have some more fat
for her cooking.

"Now, grandmother, tell me the story of the bear's fat. I shall be so
happy if you will," I begged.

"It is a good story and it is true. You should know it by heart and
gain a lesson from it," she replied. "It was in the forests of
Minnesota, in the country that now belongs to the Ojibways. From the
Bedawakanton Sioux village a young married couple went into the woods
to get fresh venison. The snow was deep; the ice was thick. Far away in
the woods they pitched their lonely teepee. The young man was a
well-known hunter and his wife a good maiden of the village.

"He hunted entirely on snow-shoes, because the snow was very deep. His
wife had to wear snow-shoes too, to get to the spot where they pitched
their tent. It was thawing the day they went out, so their path was
distinct after the freeze came again.

"The young man killed many deer and bears. His wife was very busy
curing the meat and trying out the fat while he was away hunting each
day. In the evenings she kept on trying the fat. He sat on one side of
the teepee and she on the other.

"One evening, she had just lowered a kettle of fat to cool, and as she
looked into the hot fat she saw the face of an Ojibway scout looking
down at them through the smoke-hole. She said nothing, nor did she
betray herself in any way.

"After a little she said to her husband in a natural voice:
'Marpeetopah, some one is looking at us through the smoke-hole, and I
think it is an enemy's scout.'

"Then Marpeetopah (Four-skies) took up his bow and arrows and began to
straighten and dry them for the next day's hunt, talking and laughing
meanwhile. Suddenly he turned and sent an arrow upward, killing the
Ojibway, who fell dead at their door.

"'Quick, Wadutah!' he exclaimed; 'you must hurry home upon our trail. I
will stay here. When this scout does not return, the war-party may come
in a body or send another scout. If only one comes, I can soon dispatch
him and then I will follow you. If I do not do that, they will overtake
us in our flight.'

"Wadutah (Scarlet) protested and begged to be allowed to stay with her
husband, but at last she came away to get re-inforcements.

"Then Marpeetopah (Four-skies) put more sticks on the fire so that the
teepee might be brightly lit and show him the way. He then took the
scalp of the enemy and proceeded on his track, until he came to the
upturned root of a great tree. There he spread out his arrows and laid
out his tomahawk.

"Soon two more scouts were sent by the Ojibway war-party to see what
was the trouble and why the first one failed to come back. He heard
them as they approached. They were on snow-shoes. When they came close
to him, he shot an arrow into the foremost. As for the other, in his
effort to turn quickly his snow-shoes stuck in the deep snow and
detained him, so Marpeetopah killed them both.

"Quickly he took the scalps and followed Wadutah. He ran hard. But the
Ojibways suspected something wrong and came to the lonely teepee, to
find all their scouts had been killed. They followed the path of
Marpeetopah and Wadutah to the main village, and there a great battle
was fought on the ice. Many were killed on both sides. It was after
this that the Sioux moved to the Mississippi river."

I was sleepy by this time and I rolled myself up in my buffalo robe and
fell asleep.






    Hush, hushaby, little woman!
    Be brave and weep not!
    The spirits sleep not;
    'Tis they who ordain
    To woman, pain.

    Hush, hushaby, little woman!
    Now, all things bearing,
    A new gift sharing
    From those above--
    To woman, love.

        Sioux Lullaby


"Chinto, wéyanna! Yes, indeed; she is a real little woman," declares
the old grandmother, as she receives and critically examines the tiny
bit of humanity.

There is no remark as to the color of its hair or eyes, both so black
as almost to be blue, but the old woman scans sharply the delicate
profile of the baby face.

"Ah, she has the nose of her ancestors! Lips thin as a leaf, and eyes
bright as stars in midwinter!" she exclaims, as she passes on the furry
bundle to the other grandmother for her inspection.

"Tokee! she is pretty enough to win a twinkle from the evening star,"
remarks that smiling personage.

"And what shall her name be?

"Winona, the First-born, of course. That is hers by right of birth."

"Still, it may not fit her. One must prove herself worthy in order to
retain that honorable name."

"Ugh," retorts the first grandmother, "she can at least bear it on
probation!"

"Tosh, tosh," the other assents.

Thus the unconscious little Winona has passed the first stage of the
Indian's christening.

Presently she is folded into a soft white doeskin, well lined with the
loose down of cattails, and snugly laced into an upright oaken cradle,
the front of which is a richly embroidered buckskin bag, with porcupine
quills and deer's hoofs suspended from its profuse fringes. This gay
cradle is strapped upon the second grandmother's back, and that
dignitary walks off with the newcomer.

"You must come with me," she says. "We shall go among the father and
mother trees, and hear them speak with their thousand tongues, that you
may know their language forever. I will hang the cradle of the
woman-child upon Utuhu, the oak; and she shall hear the love-sighs of
the pine maiden!"

In this fashion Winona is introduced to nature and becomes at once
"nature-born," in accord with the beliefs and practices of the wild red
man.

The baby girl is called Winona for some months, when the medicine-man
is summoned and requested to name publicly the first-born daughter of
Chetonska, the White Hawk; but not until he has received a present of a
good pony with a finely painted buffalo-robe. It is usual to confer
another name besides that of the "First-born," which may be resumed
later if the maiden proves worthy. The name Winona implies much of
honor. It means charitable, kind, helpful; all that an eldest sister
should be!

The herald goes around the ring of lodges announcing in singsong
fashion the christening, and inviting everybody to a feast in honor of
the event. A real American christening is always a gala occasion, when
much savage wealth is distributed among the poor and old people. Winona
has only just walked, and this fact is also announced with additional
gifts. A well-born child is ever before the tribal eye and in the
tribal ear, as every little step in its progress toward manhood or
womanhood--the first time of walking or swimming, first shot with bow
and arrow (if a boy), first pair of moccasins made (if a girl)--is
announced publicly with feasting and the giving of presents.

So Winona receives her individual name of Tatiyopa, or Her Door. It is
symbolic, like most Indian names, and implies that the door of the
bearer is hospitable and her home attractive.

The two grandmothers, who have carried the little maiden upon their
backs, now tell and sing to her by turns all the legends of their most
noted female ancestors, from the twin sisters of the old story, the
maidens who married among the star people of the sky, down to their own
mothers. All their lullabies are feminine, and designed to impress upon
her tender mind the life and duties of her sex.

As soon as she is old enough to play with dolls, she plays mother in
all seriousness and gravity. She is dressed like a miniature woman (and
her dolls are clad likewise), in garments of doeskin to her ankles,
adorned with long fringes, embroidered with porcupine quills, and dyed
with root dyes in various colors. Her little blanket or robe, with
which she shyly drapes or screens her head and shoulders, is the skin
of a buffalo calf or a deer, soft, white, embroidered on the smooth
side, and often with the head and hoofs left on.

"You must never forget, my little daughter, that you are a woman like
myself. Do always those things that you see me do," her mother often
admonishes her.

Even the language of the Sioux has its feminine dialect, and the tiny
girl would be greatly abashed were it ever needful to correct her for
using a masculine termination.

This mother makes for her little daughter a miniature copy of every
rude tool that she uses in her daily tasks. There is a little scraper
of elk-horn to scrape raw-hides preparatory to tanning them, another
scraper of a different shape for tanning, bone knives, and stone
mallets for pounding choke-cherries and jerked meat.

While her mother is bending over a large buffalo-hide stretched and
pinned upon the ground, standing upon it and scraping off the fleshy
portion as nimbly as a carpenter shaves a board with his plane, Winona,
at five years of age, stands upon a corner of the great hide and
industriously scrapes away with her tiny instrument. When the mother
stops to sharpen her tool, the little woman always sharpens hers also.
Perhaps there is water to be fetched in bags made from the dried
pericardium of an animal; the girl brings some in a smaller water-bag.
When her mother goes for wood she carries one or two sticks on her
back. She pitches her play teepee to form an exact copy of her
mother's. Her little belongings are nearly all practical, and her very
play is real!





    Braver than the bravest,
      You sought honors at death's door;
    Could you not remember
      One who weeps at home--
    Could you not remember me?

    Braver than the bravest,
      You sought honors more than love;
    Dear, I weep, yet I am not a coward;
      My heart weeps for thee--
    My heart weeps when I remember thee!

        Sioux Love Song


The sky is blue overhead, peeping through window-like openings in a
roof of green leaves. Right between a great pine and a birch tree their
soft doeskin shawls are spread, and there sit two Sioux maidens amid
their fineries--variously colored porcupine quills for embroidery laid
upon sheets of thin birch-bark, and moccasin tops worked in colors like
autumn leaves. It is Winona and her friend Miniyata.

They have arrived at the period during which the young girl is
carefully secluded from her brothers and cousins and future lovers, and
retires, as it were, into the nunnery of the woods, behind a veil of
thick foliage. Thus she is expected to develop her womanly qualities.
In meditation and solitude, entirely alone or with a chosen companion
of her own sex and age, she gains a secret strength, as she studies the
art of womanhood from nature herself.

"Come, let us practise our sacred dance," says one to the other. Each
crowns her glossy head with a wreath of wild flowers, and they dance
with slow steps around the white birch, singing meanwhile the sacred
songs.

Now upon the lake that stretches blue to the eastward there appears a
distant canoe, a mere speck, no bigger than a bird far off against the
shining sky.

"See the lifting of the paddles!" exclaims Winona.

"Like the leaping of a trout upon the water!" suggests Miniyata.

"I hope they will not discover us, yet I would like to know who they
are," remarks the other, innocently.

The birch canoe approaches swiftly, with two young men plying the light
cedar paddles.

The girls now settle down to their needle-work, quite as if they had
never laughed or danced or woven garlands, bending over their
embroidery in perfect silence. Surely they would not wish to attract
attention, for the two sturdy young warriors have already landed.

They pick up the canoe and lay it well up on the bank, out of sight.
Then one procures a strong pole. They lift a buck deer from the
canoe--not a mark upon it, save for the bullet wound; the deer looks as
if it were sleeping! They tie the hind legs together and the fore legs
also and carry it between them on the pole.

Quickly and cleverly they do all this; and now they start forward and
come unexpectedly upon the maidens' retreat! They pause for an instant
in mute apology, but the girls smile their forgiveness, and the youths
hurry on toward the village.

Winona has now attended her first maidens' feast and is considered
eligible to marriage. She may receive young men, but not in public or
in a social way, for such is not the custom of the Sioux. When he
speaks, she need not answer him unless she chooses.

It was no disgrace to the chief's daughter in the old days to work with
her hands. Indeed, their standard of worth was the willingness to work,
but not for the sake of accumulation, only in order to give. Winona has
learned to prepare skins, to remove the hair and tan the skin of a deer
so that it may be made into moccasins within three days. She has a bone
tool for each stage of the conversion of the stiff rawhide into velvety
leather. She has been taught the art of painting tents and rawhide
cases, and the manufacture of garments of all kinds.

Generosity is a trait that is highly developed in the Sioux woman. She
makes many moccasins and other articles of clothing for her male
relatives, or for any who are not well provided. She loves to see her
brother the best dressed among the young men, and the moccasins
especially of a young brave are the pride of his woman-kind.

Her own person is neatly attired, but ordinarily with great simplicity.
Her doeskin gown has wide, flowing sleeves; the neck is low, but not so
low as is the evening dress of society.

Her moccasins are plain; her leggins close-fitting and not as high as
her brother's. She parts her smooth, jet-black hair in the middle and
plaits it in two. In the old days she used to do it in one plait wound
around with wampum. Her ornaments, sparingly worn, are beads, elks'
teeth, and a touch of red paint. No feathers are worn by the woman,
unless in a sacred dance. She is supposed to be always occupied with
some feminine pursuit or engaged in some social affair, which also is
strictly feminine as a rule.

There is an etiquette of sitting and standing, which is strictly
observed. The woman must never raise her knees or cross her feet when
seated. She seats herself on the ground sidewise, with both feet under
her.

Notwithstanding her modesty and undemonstrative ways, there is no lack
of mirth and relaxation for Winona among her girl companions.

In summer, swimming and playing in the water is a favorite amusement.
She even imitates with the soles of her feet the peculiar, resonant
sound that the beaver makes with her large, flat tail upon the surface
of the water. She is a graceful swimmer, keeping the feet together and
waving them backward and forward like the tail of a fish.

Nearly all her games are different from those of the men. She has a
sport of wand-throwing, which develops fine muscles of the shoulder and
back. The wands are about eight feet long, and taper gradually from an
inch and a half to half an inch in diameter. Some of them are
artistically made, with heads of bone and horn, so that it is
remarkable to what a distance they may be made to slide over the
ground. In the feminine game of ball, which is something like "shinny,"
the ball is driven with curved sticks between two goals. It is played
with from two or three to a hundred on a side, and a game between two
bands or villages is a picturesque event.

A common indoor diversion is the "deer's foot" game, played with six
deer hoofs on a string, ending in a bone or steel awl. The object is to
throw it in such a way as to catch one or more hoofs on the point of
the awl, a feat which requires no little dexterity. Another is played
with marked plum-stones in a bowl, which are thrown like dice and count
according to the side that is turned uppermost.

Winona's wooing is a typical one. As with any other people, love-making
is more or less in vogue at all times of the year, but more especially
at midsummer, during the characteristic reunions and festivities of
that season. The young men go about usually in pairs, and the maidens
do likewise. They may meet by chance at any time of day, in the woods
or at the spring, but oftenest seek to do so after dark, just outside
the teepee. The girl has her companion, and he has his, for the sake of
propriety or protection. The conversation is carried on in a whisper,
so that even these chaperons do not hear.

At the sound of the drum on summer evenings, dances are begun within
the circular rows of teepees, but without the circle the young men
promenade in pairs. Each provides himself with the plaintive flute and
plays the simple cadences of his people, while his person is completely
covered with his fine robe, so that he cannot be recognized by the
passer-by. At every pause in the melody he gives his yodel-like
love-call, to which the girls respond with their musical, sing-song
laughter.

Matosapa has improved every opportunity, until Winona has at last shyly
admitted her willingness to listen. For a whole year he has been
compelled at intervals to repeat the story of his love. Through the
autumn hunting of the buffalo and the long, cold winter he often
presents her kinsfolk with his game.

At the next midsummer the parents on both sides are made acquainted
with the betrothal, and they at once begin preparations for the coming
wedding. Provisions and delicacies of all kinds are laid aside for a
feast. Matosapa's sisters and his girl cousins are told of the
approaching event, and they too prepare for it, since it is their duty
to dress or adorn the bride with garments made by their own hands.

The bride is ceremoniously delivered to her husband's people, together
with presents of rich clothing, collected from all her clan, which she
afterward distributes among her new relations. Winona is carried in a
travois handsomely decorated, and is received with equal ceremony.






The Wahpetonwan village on the banks of the Minnesota river was alive
with the newly-arrived guests and the preparations for the coming
event. Meat of wild game had been put away with much care during the
previous fall in anticipation of this feast. There was wild rice and
the choicest of dried venison that had been kept all winter, as well as
freshly dug turnips, ripe berries and an abundance of fresh meat.

Along the edge of the woods the teepees were pitched in groups or
semi-circles, each band distinct from the others. The teepee of Mankato
or Blue Earth was pitched in a conspicuous spot. Just over the entrance
was painted in red and yellow a picture of a pipe, and directly
opposite this the rising sun. The painting was symbolic of welcome and
good will to men under the bright sun.

A meeting was held to appoint some "medicine-man" to make the balls
that were to be used in the lacrosse contest; and presently the herald
announced that this honor had been conferred upon old Chankpee-yuhah,
or "Keeps the Club," while every other man of his profession was
disappointed.

Towards evening he appeared in the circle, leading by the hand a boy
about four years old. Closely the little fellow observed every motion
of the man; nothing escaped his vigilant black eyes, which seemed
constantly to grow brighter and larger, while his glossy black hair was
plaited and wound around his head like that of a Celestial. He wore a
bit of swan's down in each ear, which formed a striking contrast with
the child's complexion. Further than this, the boy was painted
according to the fashion of the age. He held in his hands a miniature
bow and arrows.

The medicine-man drew himself up in an admirable attitude, and
proceeded to make his short speech:

"Wahpetonwans, you boast that you run down the elk; you can outrun the
Ojibways. Before you all, I dedicate to you this red ball. Kaposias,
you claim that no one has a lighter foot than you; you declare that you
can endure running a whole day without water. To you I dedicate this
black ball. Either you or the Leaf-Dwellers will have to drop your eyes
and bow your head when the game is over. I wish to announce that if the
Wahpetonwans should win, this little warrior shall bear the name
Ohiyesa (winner) through life; but if the Light Lodges should win, let
the name be given to any child appointed by them."

The ground selected for the great game was on a narrow strip of land
between a lake and the river. It was about three quarters of a mile
long and a quarter of a mile in width. The spectators had already
ranged themselves all along the two sides, as well as at the two ends,
which were somewhat higher than the middle. The soldiers appointed to
keep order furnished much of the entertainment of the day. They painted
artistically and tastefully, according to the Indian fashion, not only
their bodies but also their ponies and clubs. They were so strict in
enforcing the laws that no one could venture with safety within a few
feet of the limits of the field.

Now all of the minor events and feasts, occupying several days' time,
had been observed. Heralds on ponies' backs announced that all who
intended to participate in the final game were requested to repair to
the ground; also that if any one bore a grudge against another, he was
implored to forget his ill-feeling until the contest should be over.

The most powerful men were stationed at the half-way ground, while the
fast runners were assigned to the back. It was an impressive spectacle
a fine collection of agile forms, almost stripped of garments and
painted in wild imitation of the rainbow and sunset sky on human
canvas. Some had undertaken to depict the Milky Way across their tawny
bodies, and one or two made a bold attempt to reproduce the lightning.
Others contented themselves with painting the figure of some fleet
animal or swift bird on their muscular chests.

At the middle of the ground were stationed four immense men,
magnificently formed. A fifth approached this group, paused a moment,
and then threw his head back, gazed up into the sky in the manner of a
cock and gave a smooth, clear operatic tone. Instantly the little black
ball went up between the two middle rushers, in the midst of yells,
cheers and war-whoops. Both men endeavored to catch it in the air; but
alas! each interfered with the other; then the guards on each side
rushed upon them. For a time, a hundred lacrosse sticks vied with each
other, and the wriggling human flesh and paint were all one could see
through the cloud of dust. Suddenly there shot swiftly through the air
toward the south, toward the Kaposias' goal, the ball. There was a
general cheer from their adherents, which echoed back from the white
cliff on the opposite side of the Minnesota.

As the ball flew through the air, two adversaries were ready to receive
it. The Kaposia quickly met the ball, but failed to catch it in his
netted bag, for the other had swung his up like a flash. Thus it struck
the ground, but had no opportunity to bound up when a Wahpeton pounced
upon it like a cat and slipped out of the grasp of his opponents. A
mighty cheer thundered through the air.

The warrior who had undertaken to pilot the little sphere was risking
much, for he must dodge a host of Kaposias before he could gain any
ground. He was alert and agile; now springing like a panther, now
leaping like a deer over a stooping opponent who tried to seize him
around the waist. Every opposing player was upon his heels, while those
of his own side did all in their power to clear the way for him. But it
was all in vain. He only gained fifty paces.

Thus the game went. First one side, then the other would gain an
advantage, and then it was lost, until the herald proclaimed that it
was time to change the ball. No victory was in sight for either side.

After a few minutes' rest, the game was resumed. The red ball was now
tossed in the air in the usual way. No sooner had it descended than one
of the rushers caught it and away it went northward; again it was
fortunate, for it was advanced by one of the same side. The scene was
now one of the wildest excitement and confusion. At last, the northward
flight of the ball was checked for a moment and a desperate struggle
ensued.

The ball had not been allowed to come to the surface since it reached
this point, for there were more than a hundred men who scrambled for
it. Suddenly a warrior shot out of the throng like the ball itself!
Then some of the players shouted: "Look out for Antelope!" But it was
too late. The little sphere had already nestled into Antelope's palm
and that fleetest of Wahpetons had thrown down his lacrosse stick and
set a determined eye upon the northern goal.

Such a speed! He had cleared almost all the opponents' guards--there
were but two more. These were exceptional runners of the Kaposias. As
he approached them in his almost irresistible speed, every savage heart
thumped louder in the Indian's dusky bosom. In another moment there
would be a defeat for the Kaposias or a prolongation of the game. The
two men, with a determined look approached their foe like two panthers
prepared to spring; yet he neither slackened his speed nor deviated
from his course. A crash--a mighty shout!--the two Kaposias collided,
and the swift Antelope had won the laurels!

The turmoil and commotion at the victors' camp were indescribable. A
few beats of a drum were heard, after which the criers hurried along
the lines, announcing the last act to be performed at the camp of the
"Leaf Dwellers."

The day had been a perfect one. Every event had been a success; and, as
a matter of course, the old people were happy, for they largely
profited by these occasions. Within the circle formed by the general
assembly sat in a group the members of the common council. Blue Earth
arose, and in a few appropriate and courteous remarks assured his
guests that it was not selfishness that led his braves to carry off the
honors of the last event, but that this was a friendly contest in which
each band must assert its prowess. In memory of this victory, the boy
would now receive his name. A loud "Ho-o-o" of approbation reverberated
from the edge of the forest upon the Minnesota's bank.

Half frightened, the little fellow was now brought into the circle,
looking very much as if he were about to be executed. Cheer after cheer
went up for the awe-stricken boy. Chankpee-yuhah, the medicine-man,
proceeded to confer the name.

"Ohiyesa (or Winner) shall be thy name henceforth. Be brave, be patient
and thou shalt always win! Thy name is Ohiyesa."






Away beyond the Thin Hills, above the Big Lone Tree upon the Powder
river, the Uncpapa Sioux had celebrated their Sun Dance, some forty
years ago. It was midsummer and the red folk were happy. They lacked
for nothing. The yellowish green flat on either side of the Powder was
studded with wild flowers, and the cottonwood trees were in full leaf.
One large circle of buffalo-skin teepees formed the movable village.

The tribal rites had all been observed, and the usual summer
festivities enjoyed to the full. The camp as it broke up divided itself
in three parts, each of which had determined to seek a favorite
hunting-ground.

One band journeyed west, toward the Tongue river. One followed a
tributary of the Powder to the south. The third merely changed camp, on
account of the grazing for ponies, and for four days remained near the
old place.

The party that went west did not fail to realize the perilous nature of
their wanderings, for they were trespassing upon the country of the
warlike Crows.

On the third day at sunrise, the Sioux crier's voice resounded in the
valley of the Powder, announcing that the lodges must be razed and the
villagers must take up their march.

Breakfast of jerked buffalo meat had been served and the women were
adjusting their packs, not without much chatter and apparent confusion.
Weeko (Beautiful Woman), the young wife of the war-chief Shunkaska, who
had made many presents at the dances in honor of her twin boys, now
gave one of her remaining ponies to a poor old woman whose only beast
of burden, a large dog, had died during the night.

This made it necessary to shift the packs of the others. Nakpa, or Long
Ears, her kitten-like gray mule, which had heretofore been honored with
the precious burden of the twin babies, was to be given a heavier and
more cumbersome load. Weeko's two-year-old spotted pony was selected to
carry the babies.

Accordingly, the two children, in their gorgeously beaded buckskin
hoods, were suspended upon either side of the pony's saddle. As Weeko's
first-born, they were beautifully dressed; even the saddle and bridle
were daintily worked by her own hands.

The caravan was now in motion, and Weeko started all her ponies after
the leader, while she adjusted the mule's clumsy burden of kettles and
other household gear. In a moment:

"Go on, let us see how you move with your new load! Go on!" she
exclaimed again, with a light blow of the horse-hair lariat, as the
animal stood perfectly still.

Nakpa simply gave an angry side glance at her load and shifted her
position once or twice. Then she threw herself headlong into the air
and landed stiff-legged, uttering at the same time her unearthly
protest. First she dove straight through the crowd, then proceeded in a
circle, her heels describing wonderful curves and sweeps in the air.
Her pack, too, began to come to pieces and to take forced flights from
her undignified body and heels, in the midst of the screams of women
and children, the barking of dogs, and the war-whoops of the amused
young braves.

The cowskin tent became detached from her saddle, and a moment later
Nakpa stood free. Her sides worked like a bellows as she stood there,
meekly indignant, apparently considering herself to be the victim of an
uncalled-for misunderstanding.

"I should put an arrow through her at once, only she is not worth a
good arrow," said Shunkaska, or White Dog, the husband of Weeko. At his
wife's answer, he opened his eyes in surprised displeasure.

"No, she shall have her own pack again. She wants her twins. I ought
never to have taken them from her!"

Weeko approached Nakpa as she stood alone and unfriended in the face of
her little world, all of whom considered that she had committed the
unpardonable sin. As for her, she evidently felt that her misfortunes
had not been of her own making. She gave a hesitating, sidelong look at
her mistress.

"Nakpa, you should not have acted so. I knew you were stronger than the
others, therefore I gave you that load," said Weeko in a conciliatory
tone, and patted her on the nose. "Come, now, you shall have your own
pet pack," and she led her back to where the young pony stood silently
with the babies.

Nakpa threw back her ears and cast savage looks at him, while
Shunkaska, with no small annoyance, gathered together as much as he
could of their scattered household effects. The sleeping brown-skinned
babies in their chrysalis-like hoods were gently lowered from the
pony's back and attached securely to Nakpa's padded wooden saddle. The
family pots and kettles were divided among the pack-ponies. Order was
restored and the village once more in motion.

"Come now, Nakpa; you have your wish. You must take good care of my
babies. Be good, because I have trusted you," murmured the young mother
in her softest tones.

"Really, Weeko, you have some common ground with Nakpa, for you both
always want to have your own way, and stick to it, too! I tell you, I
fear this Long Ears. She is not to be trusted with babies," remarked
Shunkaska, with a good deal of severity.

But his wife made no reply, for she well knew that though he might
criticize, he would not actually interfere with her domestic
arrangements.

He now started ahead to join the men in advance of the slow-moving
procession, thus leaving her in undivided charge of her household. One
or two of the pack ponies were not well trained and required all her
attention. Nakpa had been a faithful servant until her escapade of the
morning, and she was now obviously satisfied with her mistress'
arrangements. She walked alongside with her lariat dragging, and
perfectly free to do as she pleased.

Some hours later, the party ascended a slope from the river bottom to
cross over the divide which lay between the Powder River and a
tributary stream. The ford was deep, with a swift current. Here and
there a bald butte stood out in full relief against the brilliant blue
sky.

"Whoo! whoo!" came the blood-curdling signal of danger from the front.
It was no unfamiliar sound--the rovers knew it only too well. It meant
sudden death--or at best a cruel struggle and frantic flight.

Terrified, yet self-possessed, the women turned to fly while yet there
was time. Instantly the mother looked to Nakpa, who carried on either
side of the saddle her precious boys. She hurriedly examined the
fastenings to see that all was secure, and then caught her swiftest
pony, for, like all Indian women, she knew just what was happening, and
that while her husband was engaged in front with the enemy, she must
seek safety with her babies.

Hardly was she in the saddle when a heartrending war-whoop sounded on
their flank, and she knew that they were surrounded! Instinctively she
reached for her husband's second quiver of arrows, which was carried by
one of the pack-ponies. Alas! the Crow warriors were already upon them!
The ponies became unmanageable, and the wild screams of women and
children pierced the awful confusion.

Quick as a flash, Weeko turned again to her babies, but Nakpa had
already disappeared!

When the Crows made their flank charge, Nakpa apparently appreciated
the situation. To save herself and the babies, she took a desperate
chance. She fled straight through the attacking force.

When the warriors came howling upon her in great numbers, she at once
started back the way she had come, to the camp left behind. They had
travelled nearly three days. To be sure, they did not travel more than
fifteen miles a day, but it was full forty miles to cover before dark.

"Look! look!" exclaimed a warrior, "two babies hung from the saddle of
a mule!"

No one heeded this man's call, and his arrow did not touch Nakpa or
either of the boys, but it struck the thick part of the saddle over the
mule's back.

"Whoo! whoo!" yelled another Crow to his comrades, "the Sioux have
dispatched a runner to get reinforcements! There he goes, down on the
flat! Now he has almost reached the river bottom!"

It was only Nakpa. She laid back her ears and stretched out more and
more to gain the river, for she realized that when she had crossed the
ford the Crows would not pursue her farther.

Now she had reached the bank. With the intense heat from her exertions,
she was extremely nervous, and she imagined a warrior behind every
bush. Yet she had enough sense left to realize that she must not
satisfy her thirst. She tried the bottom with her forefoot, then waded
carefully into the deep stream.

She kept her big ears well to the front as she swam, to catch the
slightest sound. As she stepped on the opposite shore, she shook
herself and the boys vigorously, then pulled a few mouthfuls of grass
and started on.

Soon one of the babies began to cry, and the other was not long in
joining him. Nakpa did not know what to do. She gave a gentle whinny
and both babies apparently stopped to listen; then she took up an easy
gait as if to put them to sleep.

These tactics answered only for a time. As she fairly flew over the
lowlands, the babies' hunger increased and they screamed so loud that a
passing coyote had to sit upon his haunches and wonder what in the
world the fleeing long-eared horse was carrying on his saddle. Even
magpies and crows flew near as if to ascertain the meaning of this
curious sound.

Nakpa now came to the Little Trail creek, a tributary of the Powder,
not far from the old camp. There she swerved aside so suddenly as
almost to jerk her babies out of their cradles. Two gray wolves, one on
each side, approached her, growling low--their white teeth showing.

Never in her humble life had Nakpa been in more desperate straits. The
larger of the wolves came fiercely forward to engage her attention,
while his mate was to attack her behind and cut her hamstrings. But for
once the pair had made a miscalculation. The mule used her front hoofs
vigorously on the foremost wolf, while her hind ones were doing even
more effective work. The larger wolf soon went limping away with a
broken hip, and the one in the rear received a deep cut on the jaw
which proved an effectual discouragement.

A little further on, an Indian hunter drew near on horseback, but Nakpa
did not pause or slacken her pace. On she fled through the long dry
grass of the river bottoms, while her babies slept again from sheer
exhaustion. Toward sunset, she entered the Sioux camp amid great
excitement, for some one had spied her afar off, and the boys and the
dogs announced her coming.

"Whoo, whoo! Weeko's Nakpa has come back with the twins! Whoo, whoo!"
exclaimed the men. "Tokee! tokee!" cried the women.

Zeezeewin, a sister to Weeko, who was in the village, came forward and
released the children, as Nakpa gave a low whinny and stopped.

"Sing a Brave-Heart song for the Long-Eared One! She has escaped alone
with her charge. She is entitled to wear an eagle's feather! Look at
the arrow in her saddle! and more, she has a knife-wound in her jaw and
an arrow-cut on her hind leg.--No, those are the marks of a wolf's
teeth! She has passed through many dangers and saved two chief's sons,
who will some day make the Crows sorry for this day's work!"

The speaker was an old man, who thus addressed the fast gathering
throng.

Zeezeewin now came forward again with an eagle feather and some white
paint in her hands. The young men rubbed Nakpa down, and the feather,
marked with red to indicate her wounds, was fastened to her mane.
Shoulders and hips were touched with red paint to show her endurance in
running. Then the crier, praising her brave deed in heroic verse, led
her around the camp, inside of the circle of teepees. All the people
stood outside their lodges and listened respectfully, for the Dakota
loves well to honor the faithful and the brave.

During the next day, riders came in from the ill-fated party, bringing
the sad news of the fight and heavy loss. Late in the afternoon came
Weeko, her face swollen with crying, her beautiful hair cut short in
mourning, her garments torn and covered with dust and blood. Her
husband had fallen in the fight, and her twin boys she supposed to have
been taken captive by the Crows. Singing in a hoarse voice the praises
of her departed warrior, she entered the camp. As she approached her
sister's teepee, there stood Nakpa, still wearing her honorable
decorations. At the same moment, Zeezeewin came out to meet her with
both babies in her arms.

"Mechinkshee! mechinkshee! (my sons, my sons!)" was all that the poor
mother could say, as she all but fell from the saddle to the ground.
The despised Long Ears had not betrayed her trust.






The Little Missouri was in her spring fulness, and the hills among
which she found her way to the Great Muddy were profusely adorned with
colors, much like those worn by the wild red man upon a holiday!
Between the gorgeous buttes and rainbow-tinted ridges there were narrow
plains, broken here and there by dry creeks or gulches, and these again
were clothed scantily with poplars and sad-colored bull-berry bushes,
while the bare spots were purple with the wild Dakota crocuses.

Upon the lowest of a series of natural terraces there stood on this May
morning a young Sioux girl, whose graceful movements were not unlike
those of a doe which chanced to be lurking in a neighboring gulch. On
the upper plains, not far away, were her young companions, all busily
employed with the wewoptay, as it is called--the sharp-pointed stick
with which the Sioux women dig wild turnips. They were gayly gossiping
together, or each humming a love-song as she worked, only Snana stood
somewhat apart from the rest; in fact, concealed by the crest of the
ridge.

It was now full-born day. The sun shone hot upon the bare ground, and
the drops stood upon Snana's forehead as she plied her long pole. There
was a cool spring in the dry creek bed near by, well hidden by a clump
of choke-cherry bushes, and she turned thither to cool her thirsty
throat. In the depths of the ravine her eye caught a familiar
footprint--the track of a doe with the young fawn beside it. The
hunting instinct arose within.

"It will be a great feat if I can find and take from her the babe. The
little tawny skin shall be beautifully dressed by my mother. The legs
and the nose shall be embossed with porcupine quills. It will be my
work-bag," she said to herself.

As she stole forward on the fresh trail she scanned every nook, every
clump of bushes. There was a sudden rustle from within a grove of wild
plum trees, thickly festooned with grape and clematis, and the doe
mother bounded away as carelessly as if she were never to return.

Ah, a mother's ruse! Snana entered the thorny enclosure, which was
almost a rude teepee, and, tucked away in the further-most corner, lay
something with a trout-like, speckled, tawny coat. She bent over it.
The fawn was apparently sleeping. Presently its eyes moved a bit, and a
shiver passed through its subtle body.

"Thou shalt not die; thy skin shall not become my work-bag!"
unconsciously the maiden spoke. The mother sympathy had taken hold on
her mind. She picked the fawn up tenderly, bound its legs, and put it
on her back to carry like an Indian babe in the folds of her robe.

"I cannot leave you alone, Tachinchala. Your mother is not here. Our
hunters will soon return by this road, and your mother has left behind
her two plain tracks leading to this thicket," she murmured.

The wild creature struggled vigorously for a minute, and then became
quiet. Its graceful head protruded from the elk-skin robe just over
Snana's shoulder. She was slowly climbing the slope with her burden,
when suddenly like an apparition the doe mother stood before her. The
fawn called loudly when it was first seized, and the mother was not too
far away to hear. Now she called frantically for her child, at the same
time stamping with her delicate forefeet.

"Yes, sister, you are right; she is yours; but you cannot save her
to-day! The hunters will soon be here. Let me keep her for you; I will
return her to you safely. And hear me, O sister of the woods, that some
day I may become the mother of a noble race of warriors and of fine
women, as handsome as you are!"

At this moment the quick eyes of the Indian girl detected something
strange in the doe's actions. She glanced in every direction and
behold! a grizzly bear was cautiously approaching the group from a
considerable distance.

"Run, run, sister! I shall save your child if I can," she cried, and
flew for the nearest scrub oak on the edge of the bank. Up the tree she
scrambled, with the fawn still securely bound to her back. The grizzly
came on with teeth exposed, and the doe-mother in her flight came
between him and the tree, giving a series of indignant snorts as she
ran, and so distracted Mato from his object of attack; but only for a
few seconds--then on he came!

"Desist, O brave Mato! It does not become a great medicine-man to
attack a helpless woman with a burden upon her back!"

Snana spoke as if the huge brute could understand her, and, indeed, the
Indians hold that wild animals understand intuitively when appealed to
by human beings in distress. Yet he replied only with a hoarse growl,
as rising upon his hind legs he shook the little tree vigorously.

"Ye, ye, heyupi ye!" Snana called loudly to her companion
turnip-diggers. Her cry soon brought all the women into sight upon a
near-by ridge, and they immediately gave a general alarm. Mato saw
them, but appeared not at all concerned and was still intent upon
dislodging the girl, who clung frantically to her perch.

Presently there appeared upon the little knoll several warriors,
mounted and uttering the usual war-whoop, as if they were about to
swoop down upon a human enemy. This touched the dignity of Mato, and he
immediately prepared to accept the challenge. Every Indian was alive to
the possibilities of the occasion, for it is well known that Mato, or
grizzly bear, alone among animals is given the rank of a warrior, so
that whoever conquers him may wear an eagle feather.

"Woo! woo!" the warriors shouted, as they maneuvered to draw him into
the open plain.

He answered with hoarse growls, threatening a rider who had ventured
too near. But arrows were many and well-aimed, and in a few minutes the
great and warlike Mato lay dead at the foot of the tree.

The men ran forward and counted their _coups_ on him, just as when an
enemy is fallen. Then they looked at one another and placed their hands
over their mouths as the young girl descended the-tree with a fawn
bound upon her back.

"So that was the bait!" they cried. "And will you not make a feast with
that fawn for us who came to your rescue?"

"The fawn is young and tender, and we have not eaten meat for two days.
It will be a generous thing to do," added her father, who was among
them.

"Ye-e-e!" she cried out in distress. "Do not ask it! I have seen this
fawn's mother. I have promised to keep her child safe. See! I have
saved its life, even when my own was in danger."

"Ho, ho, wakan ye lo! (Yes, yes, 'tis holy or mysterious)," they
exclaimed approvingly.

It was no small trouble for Snana to keep her trust. As may well be
supposed, all the dogs of the teepee village must be watched and kept
at a distance. Neither was it easy to feed the little captive; but in
gaining its confidence the girl was an adept. The fawn soon followed
her everywhere, and called to her when hungry exactly as she had called
to her own mother.

After several days, when her fright at the encounter with the bear had
somewhat worn off, Snana took her pet into the woods and back to the
very spot in which she had found it. In the furthest corner of the wild
plum grove she laid it down, gently stroked its soft forehead, and
smoothed the leaf-like ears. The little thing closed its eyes. Once
more the Sioux girl bent over and laid her cheek against the fawn's
head; then reluctantly she moved away, hoping and yet dreading that the
mother would return. She crouched under a clump of bushes near by, and
gave the doe call. It was a reckless thing for her to do, for such a
call might bring upon her a mountain lion or ever-watchful silver-tip;
but Snana did not think of that.

In a few minutes she heard the light patter of hoofs, and caught a
glimpse of a doe running straight toward the fawn's hiding-place. When
she stole near enough to see, the doe and the fawn were examining one
another carefully, as if fearing some treachery. At last both were
apparently satisfied. The doe caressed her natural child, and the
little one accepted the milk she offered.

In the Sioux maiden's mind there was turmoil. A close attachment to the
little wild creature had already taken root there, contending with the
sense of justice that was strong within her. Now womanly sympathy for
the mother was in control, and now a desire to possess and protect her
helpless pet.

"I can take care of her against all hunters, both animal and human.
They are ever ready to seize the helpless fawn for food. Her life will
be often exposed. You cannot save her from disaster. O, Takcha, my
sister, let me still keep her for you!" she finally appealed to the
poor doe, who was nervously watching the intruder, and apparently
thinking how she might best escape with the fawn.

Just at this moment there came a low call from the wood. It was a doe
call; but the wild mother and her new friend both knew that it was not
the call of a real doe.

"It is a Sioux hunter!" whispered the girl. "You must go, my sister! Be
off; I will take your child to safety!"

While she was yet speaking, the doe seemed to realize the danger. She
stopped only an instant to lick fondly the tawny coat of the little
one, then she bounded away.

As Snana emerged from the bushes with her charge, a young hunter met
her face to face, and stared at her curiously. He was not of her
father's camp, but a stranger.

"Ugh, you have my game."

"Tosh!" she replied coquettishly.

It was so often said among the Indians that the doe was wont to put on
human form to mislead the hunter, that it looked strange to see a woman
with a fawn, and the young man could not forbear to gaze upon Snana.

"You are not the real mother in maiden's guise? Tell me truly if you
are of human blood," he demanded rudely.

"I am a Sioux maiden! Do you not know my father?" she replied.

"Ah, but who is your father? What is his name?" he insisted, nervously
fingering his arrows.

"Do not be a coward! Surely you should know a maid of your own race,"
she replied reproachfully.

"Ah, you know the tricks of the doe! What is thy name?"

"Hast thou forgotten the etiquette of thy people, and wouldst compel me
to pronounce my own name? I refuse; thou art jesting!" she retorted
with a smile.

"Thou dost give the tricky answers of a doe. I cannot wait; I must act
before I lose my natural mind. But already I am yours. Whatever purpose
you may have in thus charming a poor hunter, be merciful," and,
throwing aside his quiver, he sat down.

The maiden stole a glance at his face and then another. He was
handsome. Softly she reëntered the thicket and laid down the little
fawn.

"Promise me never to hunt here again!" she said earnestly, as she came
forth without her pretty burden, and he exacted another promise in
return. Thus Snana lost her fawn, and found a lover.







"Hakadah, coowah!" was the sonorous call that came from a large teepee
in the midst of the Indian encampment. In answer to the summons there
emerged from the woods, which were only a few steps away, a boy,
accompanied by a splendid black dog. There was little in the appearance
of the little fellow to distinguish him from the other Sioux boys.

He hastened to the tent from which he had been summoned, carrying in
his hands a bow and arrows gorgeously painted, while the small birds
and squirrels that he had killed with these weapons dangled from his
belt.

Within the tent sat two old women, one on each side of the fire.
Uncheedah was the boy's grandmother, who had brought up the motherless
child. Wahchewin was only a caller, but she had been invited to remain
and assist in the first personal offering of Hakadah to the "Great
Mystery."

It had been whispered through the teepee village that Uncheedah
intended to give a feast in honor of her grandchild's first sacrificial
offering. This was mere speculation, however, for the clear-sighted old
woman had determined to keep this part of the matter secret until the
offering should be completed, believing that the "Great Mystery" should
be met in silence and dignity.

The boy came rushing into the lodge, followed by his dog Ohitika, who
was wagging his tail promiscuously, as if to say: "Master and I are
really hunters!"

Hakadah breathlessly gave a descriptive narrative of the killing of
each bird and squirrel as he pulled them off his belt and threw them
before his grandmother.

"This blunt-headed arrow," said he, "actually had eyes this morning.
Before the squirrel can dodge around the tree it strikes him in the
head, and, as he falls to the ground, my Ohitika is upon him."

He knelt upon one knee as he talked, his black eyes shining like
evening stars.

"Sit down here," said Uncheedah to the boy; "I have something to say to
you. You see that you are now almost a man. Observe the game you have
brought me! It will not be long before you will leave me, for a warrior
must seek opportunities to make him great among his people.

"You must endeavor to equal your father and grandfather," she went on.
"They were warriors and feast-makers. But it is not the poor hunter who
makes many feasts. Do you not remember the 'Legend of the Feast-Maker,'
who gave forty feasts in twelve moons? And have you forgotten the story
of the warrior who sought the will of the Great Mystery? To-day you
will make your first offering to him."

The concluding sentence fairly dilated the eyes of the young hunter,
for he felt that a great event was about to occur, in which he would be
the principal actor. But Uncheedah resumed her speech.

"You must give up one of your belongings--whichever is dearest to
you--for this is to be a sacrificial offering."

This somewhat confused the boy; not that he was selfish, but rather
uncertain as to what would be the most appropriate thing to give. Then,
too, he supposed that his grandmother referred to his ornaments and
playthings only. So he volunteered:

"I can give up my best bow and arrows, and all the paints I have,
and--and my bear's claws necklace, grandmother!"

"Are these the things dearest to you?" she demanded.

"Not the bow and arrows, but the paints will be very hard to get, for
there are no white people near; and the necklace--it is not easy to get
one like it again. I will also give up my otter-skin head-dress, if you
think that it not enough."

"But think, my boy, you have not yet mentioned the thing that will be a
pleasant offering to the Great Mystery."

The boy looked into the woman's face with a puzzled expression.

"I have nothing else as good as those things I have named, grandmother,
unless it is my spotted pony; and I am sure that the Great Mystery will
not require a little boy to make him so large a gift. Besides, my uncle
gave three otter-skins and five eagle-feathers for him and I promised
to keep him a long while, if the Blackfeet or the Crows do not steal
him."

Uncheedah was not fully satisfied with the boy's free offerings.
Perhaps it had not occurred to him what she really wanted. But
Uncheedah knew where his affection was vested. His faithful dog, his
pet and companion--Hakadah was almost inseparable from the loving
beast.

She was sure that it would be difficult to obtain his consent to
sacrifice the animal, but she ventured upon a final appeal.

"You must remember," she said, "that in this offering you will call
upon him who looks at you from every creation. In the wind you hear him
whisper to you. He gives his war-whoop in the thunder. He watches you
by day with his eye, the sun; at night, he gazes upon your sleeping
countenance through the moon. In short, it is the Mystery of Mysteries,
who controls all things, to whom you will make your first offering. By
this act, you will ask him to grant to you what he has granted to few
men. I know you wish to be a great warrior and hunter. I am not
prepared to see my Hakadah show any cowardice, for the love of
possessions is a woman's trait and not a brave's."

During this speech, the boy had been completely aroused to the spirit
of manliness, and in his excitement was willing to give up anything he
had--even his pony! But he was unmindful of his friend and companion,
Ohitika, the dog! So, scarcely had Uncheedah finished speaking, when he
almost shouted:

"Grandmother, I will give up any of my possessions for the offering to
the Great Mystery! You may select what you think will be most pleasing
to him."

There were two silent spectators of this little dialogue. One was
Wahchewin, the other was Ohitika. The woman had been invited to stay,
although only a neighbor. The dog, by force of habit, had taken up his
usual position by the side of his master when they entered the teepee.
Without moving a muscle, save those of his eyes, he had been a very
close observer of what passed.

Had the dog but moved once to attract the attention of his little
friend, he might have been dissuaded from that impetuous exclamation:
"Grandmother, I will give up any of my possessions!"

It was hard for Uncheedah to tell the boy that he must part with his
dog, but she was equal to the situation.

"Hakadah," she proceeded cautiously, "you are a young brave. I know,
though young, your heart is strong and your courage is great. You will
be pleased to give up the dearest thing you have for your first
offering. You must give up Ohitika. He is brave; and you, too, are
brave. He will not fear death; you will bear his loss bravely.
Come,--here are four bundles of paints and a filled pipe,--let us go to
the place!"

When the last words were uttered, Hakadah did not seem to hear them. He
was simply unable to speak. To a civilized eye, he would have appeared
at that moment like a little copper statue. His bright black eyes were
fast melting in floods of tears, when he caught his grandmother's eye
and recollected her oft-repeated adage: "Tears for woman and the
war-whoop for man to drown sorrow!"

He swallowed two or three big mouthfuls of heartache and the little
warrior was master of the situation.

"Grandmother, my Brave will have to die! Let me tie together two of the
prettiest tails of the squirrels that he and I killed this morning, to
show to the Great Mystery what a hunter he has been. Let me paint him
myself."

This request Uncheedah could not refuse, and she left the pair alone
for a few minutes, while she went to ask Wacoota to execute Ohitika.

Every Indian boy knows that, when a warrior is about to meet death, he
must sing a death dirge. Hakadah thought of his Ohitika as a person who
would meet his death without a struggle, so he began to sing a dirge
for him, at the same time hugging him tight to himself. As if he were a
human being, he whispered in his ear:


"Be brave, my Ohitika! I shall remember you the first time I am upon
the war-path in the Ojibway country."

At last he heard Uncheedah talking with a man outside the teepee, so he
quickly took up his paints. Ohitika was a jet-black dog, with a silver
tip on the end of his tail and on his nose, beside one white paw and a
white star upon a protuberance between his ears. Hakadah knew that a
man who prepares for death usually paints with red and black. Nature
had partially provided Ohitika in this respect, so that only red was
required and this Hakadah supplied generously.

Then he took off a piece of red cloth and tied it around the dog's
neck; to this he fastened two of the squirrels' tails and a wing from
the oriole they had killed that morning.

Just then it occurred to him that good warriors always mourn for their
departed friends, and the usual mourning was black paint. He loosened
his black braided locks, ground a dead coal, mixed it with bear's oil
and rubbed it on his entire face.

During this time every hole in the tent was occupied with an eye. Among
the lookers-on was his grandmother. She was very near relenting. Had
she not feared the wrath of the Great Mystery, she would have been
happy to call out to the boy: "Keep your dear dog, my child!"

As it was, Hakadah came out of the teepee with his face looking like an
eclipsed moon, leading his beautiful dog, who was even handsomer than
ever with the red touches on his specks of white.

It was now Uncheedah's turn to struggle with the storm and burden in
her soul. But the boy was emboldened by the people's admiration of his
bravery, and did not shed a tear. As soon as she was able to speak, the
loving grandmother said:

"No, my young brave, not so! You must not mourn for your first
offering. Wash your face and then we will go."

The boy obeyed, submitted Ohitika to Wacoota with a smile, and walked
off with his grandmother and Wahchewin.

The boy and his grandmother descended the bank, following a tortuous
foot-path until they reached the water's edge. Then they proceeded to
the mouth of an immense cave, some fifty feet above the river, under
the cliff. A little stream of limpid water trickled down from a spring
within the cave. The little watercourse served as a sort of natural
staircase for the visitors. A cool, pleasant atmosphere exhaled from
the mouth of the cavern. Really it was a shrine of nature, and it is
not strange that it was so regarded by the tribe.

A feeling of awe and reverence came to the boy. "It is the home of the
Great Mystery," he thought to himself; and the impressiveness of his
surroundings made him forget his sorrow.

Very soon Wahchewin came with some difficulty to the steps. She placed
the body of Ohitika upon the ground in a life-like position and again
left the two alone.

As soon as she disappeared from view, Uncheedah, with all solemnity and
reverence, unfastened the leather strings that held the four small
bundles of paints and one of tobacco, while the filled pipe was laid
beside the dead Ohitika.

She scattered paints and tobacco all about. Again they stood a few
moments silently; then she drew a deep breath and began her prayer to
the Great Mystery:

"O, Great Mystery, we hear thy voice in the rushing waters below us! We
hear thy whisper in the great oaks above! Our spirits are refreshed
with thy breath from within this cave. O, hear our prayer! Behold this
little boy and bless him! Make him a warrior and a hunter as great as
thou didst make his father and grandfather."

And with this prayer the little warrior had completed his first
offering.







The full moon was just clear of the high mountain ranges when the game
scout moved slowly homeward, well wrapped in his long buffalo robe,
which was securely belted to his strong loins; his quiver tightly tied
to his shoulders so as not to impede his progress.

As he emerged from the lowlands into the upper regions, he loomed up a
gigantic figure against the clear, moonlit horizon. His picturesque
foxskin cap with all its trimmings was incrusted with frost from the
breath of his nostrils, and his lagging footfall sounded crisply. The
distance he had that day covered was enough for any human endurance;
yet he was neither faint nor hungry; but his feet were frozen into the
psay, the snow-shoes, so that he could not run faster than an easy slip
and slide.

At last he reached the much-coveted point--the crown of the last
ascent; and when he smelled fire and the savory odor of the jerked
buffalo meat, it well-nigh caused him to waver! But he must not fail to
follow the custom of untold ages, and give the game scout's wolf call
before entering camp.

Accordingly he paused upon the highest point of the ridge and uttered a
cry to which the hungry cry of a real wolf would have seemed but a
coyote's yelp in comparison! Then it was that the rest of the buffalo
hunters knew that their game scout was returning with welcome news; for
the unsuccessful scout enters the camp silently.

In the meantime, the hunters at the temporary camp were aroused to a
high pitch of excitement. Some turned their buffalo robes and put them
on in such a way as to convert themselves into make-believe bison, and
began to tread the snow, while others were singing the buffalo song,
that their spirits might be charmed and allured within the circle of
the camp-fires. The scout, too, was singing his buffalo bull song in a
guttural, lowing chant as he neared the hunting camp. Within arrow-shot
he paused again, while the usual ceremonies were enacted for his
reception. This done, he was seated with the leaders in a chosen place.

"It was a long run," he said, "but there were no difficulties. I found
the first herd directly north of here. The second herd, a great one, is
northeast, near Shell Lake. The snow is deep. The buffalo can only
follow their leader in their retreat."

"Hi, hi, hi!" the hunters exclaimed solemnly in token of gratitude,
raising their hands heavenward and then pointing them toward the
ground.

"Ho, kola! one more round of the buffalo-pipe, then we shall retire, to
rise before daybreak for the hunt," advised one of the leaders.
Silently they partook in turn of the long-stemmed pipe, and one by one,
with a dignified "Ho!" departed to their teepees.

The scout betook himself to his little old buffalo teepee, which he
used for winter hunting expeditions. His faithful Shunka, who had been
all this time its only occupant, met him at the entrance as dogs alone
know how to welcome a lifelong friend. As his master entered he
stretched himself in his old-time way, from the tip of his tail to that
of his tongue, and finished by curling both ends upward.

"Ho, mita Shunka, eat this; for you must be hungry!" So saying, the
scout laid before his canine friend the last piece of his dried buffalo
meat. It was the sweetest meal ever eaten by a dog, judging by his long
smacking of his lips after he had swallowed it!

The hunting party was soon lost in heavy slumber. Not a sound could be
heard save the gnawing of the ponies upon the cottonwood bark, which
was provided for them instead of hay in the winter time.

When Wapashaw, the game scout, had rolled himself in his warm buffalo
robe and was sound asleep, his faithful companion hunter, the great
Esquimaux wolf dog, silently rose and again stretched himself, then
stood quiet for a moment as if meditating. It was clear that he knew
well what he had planned to do, but was considering how he should do it
without arousing any suspicion of his movements. This is a dog's art,
and the night tricks and marauding must always be the joy and secret of
his life!

Softly he emerged from the lodge and gave a sweeping glance around to
assure him that there were none to spy upon him. Suspiciously he
sniffed the air, as if to ascertain whether there could be any danger
to his sleeping master while he should be away.

Up the long ascent he trotted in a northerly direction, yet not
following his master's trail. He was large and formidable in strength,
combining the features of his wild brothers of the plains with those of
the dogs who keep company with the red men. His jet-black hair and
sharp ears and nose appeared to immense advantage against the spotless
and jewelled snow, until presently his own warm breath had coated him
with heavy frost.

After a time Shunka struck into his master's trail and followed it all
the way, only taking a short cut here and there when, by dog instinct,
he knew that a man must go around such a point to get to his
destination. He met many travellers during the night, but none had
dared to approach him, though some few followed at a distance, as if to
discover his purpose.

At last he reached Shell Lake, and there beheld a great gathering of
the herds! They stood in groups, like enormous rocks, no longer black,
but white with frost. Every one of them emitted a white steam, quickly
frozen into a fine snow in the air.

Shunka sat upon his haunches and gazed. "Wough, this is it!" he said to
himself. He had kept still when the game scout gave the wolf call,
though the camp was in an uproar, and from the adjacent hills the wild
hunters were equally joyous, because they understood the meaning of the
unwonted noise. Yet his curiosity was not fully satisfied, and he had
set out to discover the truth, and it may be to protect or serve his
master in case of danger.

At daybreak the great dog meekly entered his master's rude teepee, and
found him already preparing for the prospective hunt. He was filling
his inside moccasins full of buffalo hair to serve as stockings, over
which he put on his large buffalo moccasins with the hair inside, and
adjusted his warm leggins. He then adjusted his snow-shoes and filled
his quiver full of good arrows. The dog quietly lay down in a warm
place, making himself as small as possible, as if to escape
observation, and calmly watched his master.

Soon all the hunters were running in single file upon the trail of the
scout, each Indian closely followed by his trusty hunting dog. In less
than two hours they stood just back of the low ridge which rounded the
south side of Shell Lake. The narrow strip of land between its twin
divisions was literally filled with the bison. In the gulches beyond,
between the dark lines of timber, there were also scattered groups; but
the hunters at once saw their advantage over the herd upon the
peninsula.

"Hechetu, kola! This is well, friends!" exclaimed the first to speak.
"These can be forced to cross the slippery ice and the mire around the
springs. This will help us to get more meat. Our people are hungry, and
we must kill many in order to feed them!"

"Ugh, he is always right! Our dogs must help us here. The meat will be
theirs as well as ours," another added.

"Tosh, kola! The game scout's dog is the greatest Shunka of them all!
He has a mind near like that of a man. Let him lead the attack of his
fellows, while we crawl up on the opposite side and surround the
buffalo upon the slippery ice and in the deceitful mire," spoke up a
third. So it was agreed that the game scout and his Shunka should lead
the attack.

"Woo, woo, woo!" was the hoarse signal from the throat of the game
scout; but his voice was drowned by the howling and barking of the
savage dogs as they made their charge. In a moment all was confusion
among the buffalo. Some started this way, others that, and the great
mass swayed to and fro uncertainly. A few were ready to fight, but the
snow was too deep for a countercharge upon the dogs, save on the ice
just in front of them, where the wind had always full sweep. There all
was slippery and shining! In their excitement and confusion the bison
rushed upon this uncertain plain.

Their weight and the momentum of their rush carried them hopelessly far
out, where they were again confused as to which way to go, and many
were stuck in the mire which was concealed by the snow, except here and
there an opening above a spring from which there issued a steaming
vapor. The game scout and his valiant dog led on the force of canines
with deafening war-cries, and one could see black heads here and there
popping from behind the embankments. As the herd finally swept toward
the opposite shore, many dead were left behind. Pierced by the arrows
of the hunters, they lay like black mounds upon the glassy plain.

It was a great hunt! "Once more the camp will be fed," they thought,
"and this good fortune will help us to reach the spring alive!"

A chant of rejoicing rang out from the opposite shore, while the game
scout unsheathed his big knife and began the work which is ever the
sequel of the hunt--to dress the game; although the survivors of the
slaughter had scarcely disappeared behind the hills.

All were busily skinning and cutting up the meat into pieces convenient
for carrying, when suddenly a hunter called the attention of those near
him to an ominous change in the atmosphere.

"There are signs of a blizzard! We must hurry into the near woods
before it reaches us!" he shouted.

Some heard him; others did not. Those who saw or heard passed on the
signal and hurried toward the wood, where others had already arranged
rude shelters and gathered piles of dry wood for fuel.

Around the several camp-fires the hunters sat or stood, while slices of
savory meat were broiled and eaten with a relish by the half-starved
men.

But the storm had now fairly enveloped them in whirling whiteness.
"Woo, woo!" they called to those who had not yet reached camp. One
after another answered and emerged from the blinding pall of snow. At
last none were missing save the game scout and his Shunka!

The hunters passed the time in eating and telling stories until a late
hour, occasionally giving a united shout to guide the lost one should
he chance to pass near their camp.

"Fear not for our scout, friends!" finally exclaimed a leader among
them. "He is a brave and experienced man. He will find a safe
resting-place, and join us when the wind ceases to rage." So they all
wrapped themselves in their robes and lay down to sleep.

All that night and the following day it was impossible to give succor,
and the hunters felt much concern for the absent. Late in the second
night the great storm subsided.

"Ho, ho! Iyotanka! Rise up!" So the first hunter to awaken aroused all
the others.

As after every other storm, it was wonderfully still; so still that one
could hear distinctly the pounding feet of the jack-rabbits coming down
over the slopes to the willows for food. All dry vegetation was buried
beneath the deep snow, and everywhere they saw this white-robed
creature of the prairie coming down to the woods.

Now the air was full of the wolf and coyote game call, and they were
seen in great numbers upon the ice.

"See, see! the hungry wolves are dragging the carcasses away! Harken to
the war-cries of the scout's Shunka! Hurry, hurry!" they urged one
another in chorus.

Away they ran and out upon the lake; now upon the wind-swept ice, now
upon the crusted snow; running when they could, sliding when they must.
There was certainly a great concourse of the wolves, whirling in
frantic circles, but continually moving toward the farther end of the
lake. They could hear distinctly the hoarse bark of the scout's Shunka,
and occasionally the muffled war-whoop of a man, as if it came from
under the ice.

As they approached nearer the scene they could hear more distinctly the
voice of their friend, but still as it were from underground. When they
reached the spot to which the wolves had dragged two of the carcasses
of the buffalo, Shunka was seen to stand by one of them, but at that
moment he staggered and fell. The hunters took out their knives and
ripped up the frozen hide covering the abdominal cavity. It revealed a
warm nest of hay and buffalo hair in which the scout lay, wrapped in
his own robe!

He had placed his dog in one of the carcasses and himself in another
for protection from the storm; but the dog was wiser than the man, for
he kept his entrance open. The man lapped the hide over and it froze
solidly, shutting him securely in. When the hungry wolves came Shunka
promptly extricated himself and held them off as long as he could;
meanwhile, sliding and pulling, the wolves continued to drag over the
slippery ice the body of the buffalo in which his master had taken
refuge. The poor, faithful dog, with no care for his own safety, stood
by his imprisoned master until the hunters came up. But it was too
late, for he had received more than one mortal wound.

As soon as the scout got out, with a face more anxious for another than
for himself, he exclaimed:

"Where is Shunka, the bravest of his tribe?"

"Ho, kola, it is so, indeed; and here he lies," replied one sadly.

His master knelt by his side, gently stroking the face of the dog.

"Ah, my friend; you go where all spirits live! The Great Mystery has a
home for every living creature. May he permit our meeting there!"

At daybreak the scout carried him up to one of the pretty round hills
overlooking the lake, and built up around him walls of loose stone. Red
paints were scattered over the snow, in accordance with Indian custom,
and the farewell song was sung.

Since that day the place has been known to the Sioux as
Shunkahanakapi--the Grave of the Dog.



GLOSSARY OF INDIAN WORDS


Be-day-wah´-kan-ton, lake-dwellers.


Cha-tan´-na, fourth son.

chin´-to, certainly.

Che-ton´-skah, white hawk.

Chank-pay´-yu-hah, carries the club.

coo´-wah, come here!


ha-nah´-kah-pee, grave.

he-yu´-pee-yay, come all of you!

hay´-chay-tu, it is well.

Hah-kay´-dah, the last-born.

he-nah´-kah-gah, the owl.


Kah-po´-se-yah, Light Lodges (a band of Sioux).

Ko´-lah, friend.


Man-kah´-to, blue earth.

Mah-to´, bear.

Mah-to´-sap-ah, black bear.

Mah-pee´-to-pah, four heavens.

Me-ne-yah´-tah, beside the water.

Me-chink´-shee, my son.


Nak-pah´, ears (of an animal).


O-o´-pay-han´-skah, bluebird.

o-hit´-e-kah, brave.


shun´kah, dog.

Sna´-na, rattle.

shunk-to´-kay-chah, wolf.

She-cho´-kah, robin.

Shun´-kah-skah, white dog.


tee´-pee, tent.

tak-chah´, deer.

to-kee´, well, well!

Ta-tee´-yo-pah, her door.


Un-chee´-dah, grand-mother.

u-tu´-hu, oak.


wa-kan´, holy, wonderful.

Wah-coo´-tay, shooter.

Wah-pay´-ton, dweller among the leaves.

Wah-chee´-win, dancing woman.

Wee-ko´, beautiful woman.

Wa-doo´-tah, scarlet.

we´-yan-nah, little woman.

We-no´-nah, first-born girl.

Wah-be-day´, orphan.


Zee-zee´-wee, yellow woman.



Once upon a time, not so very many years ago, there lived an old
gentleman rabbit named Uncle Wiggily Longears. He was a nice, quiet
sort of a bunny, and he had lots of friends among other rabbits, and
squirrels, and ducks, and doggies, and pussy cats, and mice and lambs,
and all sorts of animals.

Most especially there was a muskrat lady, named Miss Jane Fuzzy-Wuzzy,
who liked Uncle Wiggily very much. She made a crutch for him, when he
had the rheumatism. She gnawed it out of a cornstalk for him, and
painted it red, white and blue with raspberry jam.

Well, Uncle Wiggily was a funny old rabbit gentleman. He was always
having adventures--which means things happening to you, such as
stubbing your toe, or getting lost or things like that.

I have told you some of his adventures in a book before this one, and
also about how he traveled all around looking for his fortune, so he
would be rich. But he didn't find it for some time, though many things
happened to him.

The last thing that happened, in the book before this one, was that he
tore his nice coat, and a good tailor bird kindly mended it for him.
And he stayed at her house for some time, bringing up coal, and
sweeping the sidewalk, and things like that to be useful; for Uncle
Wiggily was very kind.

He used to sleep in a hollow stump, near the nest of the tailor bird,
and one night it rained so hard that he had to go to bed and pull the
dried leaves up over him to keep warm. All night it rained, and in the
morning Uncle Wiggily got up, and he was hoping it had cleared off, so
he could travel on and seek his fortune, and get rich.

Out of bed hopped Uncle Wiggily. In one corner of the stump was his
valise in which he carried his lunch and clean clothes and the like of
that.

The day before, a bad wolf had chased Uncle Wiggily, catching him and
tearing his coat, so that now the rabbit gentleman was quite stiff and
sore. Still he managed to move about.

"Oh, dear me!" he exclaimed as he looked out of a hole in the stump,
and saw the big rain drops still pattering down, "this is a very poor
day for me to find my fortune. Still, I can't stay in on account of
the weather, so I will get my breakfast and travel on."

He had some carrot and lettuce sandwiches in his valise and he ate
these and then looked out to see if the rain had stopped, but it had
not, I am sorry to say.

"Well," Uncle Wiggily said. "I don't like to get wet, but there is no
help for it. I'll start out." Then he happened to think of something.
"I know what I'll do!" he exclaimed. "I'll get the largest toadstool I
can find, and use it for an umbrella."

Out he ran and soon he had picked a big toadstool that made as fine an
umbrella as one could wish. Then, strapping his satchel to his back,
where it would be out of the way, the old gentleman rabbit hopped off,
holding the toadstool umbrella over his head, and limping along on his
barber-pole crutch. And as he went over the meadows and through the
woods he sang this little song, and sometimes when one sings it just
at the right time, why it stops raining almost at once. But it has to
be sung at the proper time. Anyhow this is the song:

    "Splish-splash! Drip-dash!
     How the raindrops fall!
     When the weather gets too wet,
     It isn't nice at all.

    "Mr. Rain, oh, please go 'way!
     For my feet are wet.
     And you're splashing on my nose.
     What? You can't stop yet?

    "Won't you please be nice to me--
     Make your raindrops dry.
     I am sure you could do this
     If you'd only try.

    "Dry raindrops are very nice,
     And if they would fall,
     We could walk in showers, and
     Not get wet at all."

Well, as soon as Uncle Wiggily had sung this song, he looked up
quickly from under his toadstool umbrella to see if it had stopped
raining, but it hadn't, and he got a drop right in his left eye, which
made him sneeze so hard that his spectacles fell off. And they dropped
right into a mud puddle.

"Ha, hum!" exclaimed the old gentleman rabbit, "this is a pretty
kettle of fish!" Of course, he didn't mean that there was a kettle of
fish in the mud puddle, but that was his manner of talking, because he
was so surprised. "A very pretty kettle of fish, indeed!" cried the
old gentleman rabbit, "and speaking of fish, I guess I'll have to fish
for my spectacles."

So what did he do but use his red-white-and-blue-striped-barber-pole
crutch for a fishing pole, and he dipped it down in the mud puddle and
in a little while up came his glasses wiggling on the end of the
crutch just like an eel.

"That is good luck!" said the rabbit, as he wiped off the mud and
water and put on his spectacles, and he was just going to put his
toadstool umbrella over his head again when he found out that the rain
had stopped and he didn't need it.

Then he left the toadstool hanging on a berry bush by the mud puddle
to dry, so that whoever came along next time would have an umbrella
all ready for the rain.

"Well, now that the sun is coming out I must be on the watch for my
fortune," said the old gentleman rabbit to himself. And he peered
first on one side of the road and then on the other, but not a sign of
his fortune could he see.

Then, all of a sudden he saw something shining golden yellow in a
field close by.

"Ah, that must be a pile of yellow gold!" exclaimed Uncle Wiggily.
"Now my fortune is made!" and he hopped over to the field. But alas!
and alack-a-day! Instead of being gold the pile of yellow things were
carrots.

"Well, it might be worse!" said the rabbit. "At least I can eat
carrots. I wonder if whoever they belong to would mind if I took
some?"

"I wouldn't mind a bit!" exclaimed a voice. "Take as many as you like,
Uncle Wiggily," and up jumped Mr. Groundhog, who owned the carrots.
"Take all you can eat and fill your valise," said Mr. Groundhog.

"Thank you very kindly," replied the rabbit, so he ate several carrots
and filled his satchel with more, and then he and Mr. Groundhog talked
about the weather, and things like that, until it was time for Uncle
Wiggily to hop on again after his fortune.

But he didn't find it, and pretty soon it came on toward night, and
the old gentleman rabbit looked for a place to stay while it was dark.

"I think this will do," he said, when he came to a small stone cave.
"I'll just crawl in here with my carrots and my crutch," and in he
crawled as nicely as a basket of shavings.

Pretty soon Uncle Wiggily was fast, fast asleep, and he never thought
the least mite about any danger. But danger was close at hand just the
same.

Hark! What's that creeping, creeping along under the bushes? Eh?
What's that? Why, my goodness me sakes alive and a piece of pie! It's
the fuzzy old fox! Yes, as true as I'm telling you, the old red fox
had seen Uncle Wiggily go into the cave, and now he was snooping and
snipping up to catch him if he could.

"Oh, I'll soon have a fine time!" said the fox in a whisper, smacking
his lips. Into the cave he crawled, and in the darkness he happened to
knock over Uncle Wiggily's crutch, which was standing in a corner.
Quickly the old gentleman rabbit awakened when he heard the noise. Up
he jumped and he cried out:

"Who's there?"

"I'm the fox," was the answer, "and I came to catch you."

But do you s'pose Uncle Wiggily was afraid? Not a bit of it. He ran to
his valise and he took out a pawful of carrots with their sharp
points, and before that fox could even sneeze the rabbit threw one
carrot at him and hit him on the nose, for Uncle Wiggily could see in
the dark.

Then he threw another carrot and hit the fox on the ear, and then he
threw still another one and he hit him on the two eyes, and that fox
was so frightened and surprised that he jumped out of the second-story
window of the cave house and sprained his toenail. Then he ran back to
his den and didn't bother Uncle Wiggily any more that night, and the
rabbit slept in peace and quietness, and dreamed about Santa Claus and
ice-cream popcorn balls.

But Uncle Wiggily had another adventure next day. I'll tell you about
it in a little while, when, in case some one sends me a mud pie with a
cherry on the top, the story will be about Uncle Wiggily and the
bird's nest.




"Now, I must be very careful to-day," said Uncle Wiggily to himself as
he got up after sleeping in the stone cave, as I told you he did in
the story before this one. "I must be very careful so that fox won't
catch me."

So, very carefully and cautiously, he crept to the window of the stone
cave house, and looked down, but the red fox was not there. The sun
was brightly shining and the old gentleman rabbit could see the big
dent made in the soft ground, where the fox had landed when he jumped
out of the window and sprained his toenail.

"My! that certainly was a narrow escape for me," thought Uncle
Wiggily. Then he fried some of Mr. Groundhog's carrots for his
breakfast and, putting some of them in his valise for his lunch, off
he started once more to seek his fortune.

He hadn't gone very far before he came to a place where he heard a
funny buzzing sound. It was just like a small saw-mill away off in the
woods, where the men saw logs into boards in order that houses may be
built.

"Oh, my suz dud and a piece of red paper!" exclaimed Uncle Wiggily. "I
must be careful or I might get my nose cut off in that saw-mill." So
he was very careful, and, after he had listened a while longer, he
wasn't quite so sure that it was a saw-mill that he heard, for he
could hear a little voice crying:

"Oh, dear. I'll never get loose! I'm caught fast! Oh, if some one
would only help me!"

"Ha! That is some one in trouble!" said the rabbit. "I'm going to see
if I can't help them." So he bravely kept on through the woods, and
the buzzing sound became louder, until, all at once, the old gentleman
rabbit saw a nice, good bumble bee caught in the web of a big, black
spider.

The bee was all tangled up in the web, and it was his wings fluttering
to and fro and up and down that made the buzzing sound.

"Ha! Can't you get loose?" asked the rabbit.

"Indeed he can't!" cried the big, black spider lady, as she sat all
hunched up in a corner of her web, waiting for the bee to get more
tangled up and all tired out, so she could bite him. "He'll never get
away from me," said the spider lady, sassy-like.

"Oh, ho! We will have to see about that!" exclaimed the rabbit. "I am
afraid you are mistaken, Mrs. Spider. I am very sorry to have to spoil
your cobweb, but I must help my friend, the bumble bee." And with that
Uncle Wiggily took his crutch, and broke the web away from the bee's
legs and wings so that he was loose and could fly away.

"I never can thank you enough, Uncle Wiggily," said the bee to the
rabbit, "and if ever I can do you, or any of your friends, a favor I
will. Don't forget to call on me."

"And if ever I can bite you, I will, Mr. Rabbit," said the spider in
her crossest voice, as she set to work to mend her cobweb net so that
she might catch some one else. Oh! but she was angry, though perhaps
we can't blame her.

Well, Uncle Wiggily didn't worry much about what the spider said, as
he knew he was going to travel on for a long distance after his
fortune, and he didn't think she would come after him, and she didn't.

On and on hopped the old gentleman rabbit, sometimes going slowly and
sometimes fast, and once in a while he would go up a hill, and then,
again, he would go down. And so it went on. When it wasn't one thing
it was another. But he didn't find his fortune anywhere.

Pretty soon, when it was nearly noon, Uncle Wiggily began to feel
hungry, so he looked for a nice place where he might sit down and eat
his lunch. He saw a shady tree, and he walked toward that, and, just
as he did so, he happened to look up, and there, hanging from a
branch, was a sort of brown-colored round object, that looked like a
small bag.

"Ha! I think I know what that is!" exclaimed Uncle Wiggily. "That is
the nest of a stingery hornet, and if I go too close I'll get stung.
I'll just keep away, and go somewhere else to eat my lunch."

Uncle Wiggily started off, but at that moment he heard some voices
calling. And this is what they said:

"Oh, dear! How hungry we are! Oh, when will mamma come back! Oh, if we
only had something to eat!"

"Hum! I hope those hornets don't see me, and come out to bite me,"
said the rabbit.

And, would you ever believe it? the next moment those who had been
calling must have seen Uncle Wiggily, for a voice exclaimed:

"Oh, good Mr. Rabbit won't you please come here? We can't get out, and
our mamma has gone to the store for something to eat, and she hasn't
come back; and we're so hungry. Please help us!"

"No indeed, I will not!" said Uncle Wiggily firmly. "I don't want to
be unkind," he said, "but I am afraid you will sting me, you little
hornets!"

"Why, the idea!" cried all the voices at once. "We are not hornets, we
are only little birdies, and this is a bird's nest."

"Why, bless my whiskers!" exclaimed Uncle Wiggily. "I believe I have
made a mistake." Then he put on his glasses, and surely enough he saw
that the brown object like a bag was a nest, and it was full of little
birds who could not yet fly very much, for their wings were not strong
enough.

"Now, will you help us?" the birdies asked the rabbit. "Help us,
please do; for we won't hurt you!"

"Bless my whiskers! Of course I will!" Uncle Wiggily cried, and he at
once opened his valise and gave them all they could eat.

"Now I will go look for your mamma," he said. Off he started, but he
had not gone very far before he heard the birdies in the nest crying:

"Help! Help! Help!" Uncle Wiggily looked back, and there was a great,
big, ugly snake crawling up the tree to get the little birds.

"Oh, I must stop that!" exclaimed the rabbit, and back he started to
hop to the nest. But he was quite a distance off, and he saw that he
could not get back in time to drive off the snake. "Oh, what shall I
do?" he cried. "If only the bumble bee would come along now and sting
that snake the crawly creature would run away!"

And, would you ever believe it if I didn't tell you? At that moment
along buzzed the bee and he saw the snake and stung him so that the
snake was glad to jump away, and not hurt the little birdies. Then
Uncle Wiggily and the little birds thanked the bee, who buzzed off to
find some apple blossom honey. And pretty soon the mamma bird came
home from the store, and she was very grateful to the rabbit for
taking care of her little ones.

The reason she was away so long was because a boy threw a stone at her
and made her spill the bread she had for her birdies. So she had to go
back to the store for more.

"If you stay with us for a few days we will help you look for your
fortune," said the mamma bird, and Uncle Wiggily did stay, and he had
an adventure.

I'll tell you about it on the next page, when, in case the popcorn
ball doesn't roll off the table and bump the kittie's nose, the story
will be about Uncle Wiggily and a big rat.




When Uncle Wiggily had fed the little birds in the nest, after he and
the bumble bee had saved them from the snake, as I told you in another
story, the mamma bird said she could not do enough for the old
gentleman rabbit.

"I will have my little ones sing a song for you," she went on. "Come
now, birdies, sing for Uncle Wiggily."

So this is the song the little birds in the nest sang:

    "Uncle Wiggily is good,
     Uncle Wiggily is kind,
     And we hope with all our hearts,
     That his fortune he may find.

    "Gold and silver, diamonds, too,
     Ice-cream cones and candy sticks,
     And we hope that he can buy,
     Two red monkeys who do tricks."

"Oh! that is a very nice song, birdies," said the rabbit, as he took
off his hat and made a low bow. "But," he went on, "I don't know as I
care for red monkeys who do tricks. What in the world would I do with
them?"

"Why, you could give them to us and they would amuse us when our mamma
was away," said a little bird who had some feathers sticking crossways
in her tail.

"Yes, I suppose I could give you the monkeys," went on the old
gentleman rabbit, "but I hardly expect to find any in my
travels--especially red ones."

"Won't you stay to supper with us?" asked the mamma bird, "and we
would also be pleased to have you stay all night. Oh, no!" she
suddenly exclaimed. "I don't see how you can stay all night."

"I can if you want me to," said Uncle Wiggily, for he thought perhaps
the bird was afraid the snake might come back in the darkness, and the
old gentleman rabbit made up his mind that if the crawly creature did
sneak up, he would hit it with his crutch.

"Well, of course we'd like to have you stay," said the mamma bird,
slowly, "but the truth of the matter is that I have no place for you
to sleep. You see, our nest is so small; and besides, I never knew of
a rabbit in a nest, except at Easter time."

"Of course," agreed Uncle Wiggily, "I never thought of that. However,
it is very kind of you, and I'll travel on until I find a hollow
stump, or some place like that where I can sleep."

"Oh, mamma!" exclaimed a little boy birdie, "why can't Uncle Wiggily
make a tent, and sleep in it right near our nest? He can pretend that
he is camping out."

"The very thing!" cried the rabbit. "I'll do it. But of what can I
make a tent?"

"We can give you the sticks and the cloth," said the mamma bird, so
she showed Uncle Wiggily where there were some nice long sticks, like
fishing poles, and some old sheets from a bed that no one wanted.

"That will make a fine tent!" said Uncle Wiggily, "and I'm sure I will
sleep in it very nicely."

So he set to work to make the tent. First he stuck one stick in the
ground, and then he stuck another stick in, and then still another,
until he had about seven sticks sticking around in a circle. Next the
mamma bird pulled them together at the top, just like the Indians'
tents in the Wild West show, and then she and all the other little
birdies tied them with blades of grass for strings, and helped put the
cloth around to cover up the sticks.

Then, if you'll believe me, and I hope you do, there was the tent,
pointed on top and round at the bottom, just like those chocolate
drops with white cream inside that are so nice and soft.

"Ha! this is a very fine tent indeed!" exclaimed Uncle Wiggily. "Now
I'll move my valise and crutch inside, and I'll feel right at home."

"And we'll help you make your bed," said the little birds, and away
some of the strongest of them flew around, gathering up in their bills
dozens of soft leaves, and soon they had made as fine a bed, almost,
as baby's crib.

Then supper was ready. And now, let me see, what did they have for
supper? Oh, I know! There was some rose leaf pie, and some violets
with sugar on, and some bird seed boiled in molasses, and for Uncle
Wiggily there was the loveliest turnip cake, with carrot frosting on
top, that you have ever seen. Oh! it was most delicious, and it makes
me hungry even to typewrite about it, and I'm sure you would like it
if you had some.

"Now it's bedtime for you birdies," said the mamma, and she sang them
a little lullaby and soon their eyes were tightly shut.

"Yes, and I guess I had better get in my tent," said the rabbit, so in
he crawled beneath the cloth that was stretched over the poles, down
upon the bed of leaves he lay, and soon he too was fast, fast asleep.

Well, along about in the middle of the night Uncle Wiggily was
awakened by hearing something scratching on the side of the tent.

"Ha, hum! I wonder what that can be?" he asked. "Perhaps it is the bad
snake coming back. If it is I must get ready with my crutch."

So he reached out in the darkness to get hold of the crutch and just
then he saw a light flickering. And a moment later something big and
black, with long whiskers, and long sharp teeth, came right inside the
tent. And Uncle Wiggily saw that it was a big rat, and that rat had a
bottle, and in it were a lot of flickering lightning bugs, and that
was the lantern the rat carried, so that he could see in the dark.

"Oh, hello! So you're in here, eh?" asked the rat as he waved his
whiskers to and fro at Uncle Wiggily. "Well, I'm disappointed."

"Why so?" asked the rabbit, as he got his crutch and stood ready to
hit the rat in case he sprang forward to use his sharp teeth. "Why are
you disappointed?"

"Because I thought the birds were in here," said the rat. "I mean to
take them all off to my den and make them sing me to sleep. But since
you are here, I'll begin on you first, and then I'll go out and pull
down the birds' nest."

"Oh, no, you can't do that," said Uncle Wiggily firmly.

"Why not?" asked the rat, surprised-like. "Who will stop me?"

"I will!" bravely cried Uncle Wiggily, and with that he raised his
crutch, and he tickled that rat right on the end of his long tail. And
the rat was so surprised that he thought he had been struck by a
policeman's club. So he jumped around, and, as he did so, Uncle
Wiggily threw a piece of cherry pie at him, and it was all soft and
squashy like, and the juice ran down in the rat's eyes, and so blinded
him that he couldn't see to bite the rabbit, or even a piece of
cheese.

"Now, you get right out of this tent, and don't you dare to harm the
birds!" cried the old gentleman rabbit, and that rat went right out,
taking his long thin tail with him, but forgetting his lightning bug
lantern, which he left on the ground.

So Uncle Wiggily looked out to make sure that the rat didn't go near
the birds' nest and the bad creature didn't, but he scurried back to
his hole in the rocks, feeling quite savage-like and more disappointed
than ever.

Next the rabbit took the cork out of the rat's bottle-lantern and he
let the poor lightning bugs go, and they were very thankful. And then
the rabbit stretched out on the leaves again, and went to sleep until
morning and nothing more disturbed him.

Now if the knives and forks don't jump up and down on the table, and
upset the sugar bowl, so that it scares the vinegar bottle, I'll tell
you next about Uncle Wiggily on a raft.




"Well, I think I will be traveling along now," said Uncle Wiggily to
the bird family the next morning after he had had the adventure with
the rat. "I must have another try at finding my fortune. And, perhaps,
since you sang such a nice song for me yesterday, you little birds
will sing another as I am leaving."

"Of course they will," said their mamma, so she gave a few trills and
chords to start them off, and the birdies sang this:

    "Dear old Uncle Wiggily,
     We wish that you could stay
     And live near our nest always,
     To drive the rats away.

    "But if you now must leave us,
     Then we will wish for you,
     That you may have much happiness
     Whatever you may do."

"I'm sure that's very nice," said the rabbit, "and now I'll bid you
good-bye and travel on."

"But you must take some lunch with you," said the mamma bird, and she
gave him some more cherry pie to make up for the piece he had thrown
at the rat.

Uncle Wiggily went on and on, and pretty soon he came to a place in
the woods where there was a tall tree. And some distance up from the
ground there was a hole in this tree trunk.

"Ha, hum!" exclaimed Uncle Wiggily, "perhaps there may be gold in that
tree hole. Now if I could only climb up to see, I might find my
fortune."

Well, you know how it is with rabbits. They can't climb a tree even as
well as a girl can, and, of course, Uncle Wiggily had to remain on the
ground.

"If only Johnnie or Billie Bushytail were here now," thought the
rabbit, "those squirrel boys could climb the tree for me. But I know
what I'll do, I'll tie a stone to a string, and I'll put some molasses
on the stone and throw it up into the hole in the tree. Then, if there
is any gold there, it may stick to the molasses on the stone, and I
can pull some down."

So he did this, and he made the string fast to the stone, and was all
ready to throw it up when he happened to remember that he had no
molasses.

"How careless of me! What shall I do?" he exclaimed. And a voice
answered:

"I will give you some molasses, Uncle Wiggily."

The old gentleman rabbit looked around, and there was a nice, green
grasshopper, and, as she had some molasses with her, she put quite a
lot on the stone. Then the rabbit threw it up at the hole in the tree,
but a most surprising thing happened.

For, instead of being gold in the hole there were two unpleasant old
owls there, and when the molasses-covered stone popped in on them it
awakened them from their sleep, for owls sleep in the day time, and
fly about at night, you know.

"Who threw that stone?" cried one owl.

"I don't know," answered the other owl, and she gnashed her sharp
beak, "but whoever it was I'm going to bite him!"

"Oh, run! Run for your life, Uncle Wiggily!" cried the grasshopper, as
the two owls stuck their heads out of the hole in the tree. "Hop
away!"

So Uncle Wiggily hopped off, and the grasshopper hopped also, and the
two owls flopped down after them. But the savage birds could not see
very well in the day time, and one went ker-bunk into a tree, and the
other went ker-thump into a briar bush, and they were all tangled up,
and so Uncle Wiggily and the grasshopper got safely away.

"Well, I didn't get any fortune that time," said the rabbit
sorrowfully as he hopped down a hill. "But perhaps I may find it
soon."

The next place he came to was a big river, and, as he stood on the
bank and looked across, it seemed to Uncle Wiggily that he could see a
big field of gold on the other side.

"I must get over there," he said to himself, "and I am sure I will
find my fortune. But how am I going to do it? That river is too wide
for me to jump across, and it is too wide for me to swim. If I only
had a boat I would be all right."

The old gentleman rabbit looked around for a boat, but none was at
hand. Then he happened to think of something that Sammie and Susie
Littletail once did.

"That's what I'll do!" exclaimed Uncle Wiggily, "I'll make a raft." So
he got some planks and boards and sticks, and he laid them crossways
one upon the other, and tied them together with strong pieces of wild
grape vine. Then he had a raft on which he could sit and push himself
across the river, almost as well as if he had a rowboat.

"Now, I'll put my valise on board, and hop on myself, and away we'll
go!" he cried, and he was very much pleased with the raft that he had
made. Into the water he shoved it, and in the middle of the raft he
placed his valise. Then he got on, and shoved off, using his crutch
for a pushing pole.

Out into the middle of the river went Uncle Wiggily on the raft, and
he was having a fine sail. Then all at once he felt hungry, so he
stopped pushing the raft, opened his valise and took out a piece of
cherry pie.

Well, as true as I'm telling you, just as he was eating it he heard a
swirling noise in the water behind him and a savage voice cried out:

"Ha! Now I have you! Give me that piece of cherry pie or I'll upset
the raft and you'll get all wet!"

Uncle Wiggily looked around, and there, swimming right up to him was a
big, snicky-snooky water rat--a second cousin to the rat that got into
Uncle Wiggily's tent the night before.

"Give me that pie!" cried the rat, as she put her claws on the raft.
"Give it to me."

"No, indeed, I will not," replied Uncle Wiggily, as politely as one
can speak to a rat.

Then the bad creature tried to climb up on the raft, but the rabbit
took his crutch and put it down in the water and pushed along on the
bottom of the river, sending the raft along very swiftly.

"Oh, I'll get you yet!" cried the rat, as she swam on after the raft.
Faster and faster she swam, and faster and faster did Uncle Wiggily
push, until he was all tired out, and he felt sure he would be caught
and carried away by the bad rat. And then a voice in the air overhead
suddenly cried out:

"Take your handkerchief, Uncle Wiggily, and make a sail out of it.
Then the wind will blow you along so fast that the rat can't catch
you. Make a sail!"

And Uncle Wiggily did so. He stuck the crutch up for a mast on the
raft, and then he fastened his largest red handkerchief to the crutch.
And the wind caught it, and blew upon that red handkerchief sail and
the raft skimmered over the river so fast that the bad rat was left
far, far behind, and so couldn't catch the rabbit.

It was the kind mamma bird who had called to the rabbit gentleman to
tell him what to do.

And in a little while Uncle Wiggily was safe on the other shore and he
hopped off the raft and ran toward the field that looked as if it was
filled with gold.

Whether he found any or not, and what happened to him, I'll tell you
on the next page, when the story will be about Uncle Wiggily in a
boat--that is if our puppy dog doesn't sit down in the fly-paper and
get so stuck up so he can't gnaw a bone when he goes to the kitten's
party.



When Uncle Wiggily got to the edge of the yellow golden-colored field
after jumping off the raft, as I told you in the story before this
one, the old gentleman rabbit rubbed his eyes, and then rubbed them
again, for he wasn't quite sure of what he saw.

"Why!" he exclaimed, as he put on his spectacles in order to see
better. "I have made quite a mistake. This isn't a field of gold at
all, it is only a field of golden rod, which is a flower."

"Ah, if it is golden rod, perhaps if you wait long enough it will turn
into chunks of gold," said a little voice down on the ground, and,
glancing there, Uncle Wiggily saw a little ant with a tiny loaf of
bread on her back. "Why don't you wait for that to happen, Mr.
Rabbit?" she asked.

"Oh, it would never happen," said Uncle Wiggily. "This golden rod is a
flower, and it will always remain a flower. I am disappointed once
more about finding my fortune. I thought when I saw this shining
yellow color from my raft, after I got away from the rat, that I had
found the gold for which I am looking. But, never mind, this flower is
very pretty," and he picked a bunch of it and smelled of it.

And some of the yellow dust of the posy-blossom got up the rabbit's
twinkling nose, and he sneezed so hard that his glasses fell off. But
the ant kindly picked them up for the old gentleman though he had to
reach over to take them from her, as she was so small that she hardly
came up to the rabbit's knee.

"Well, I must get home to my little ones," said the ant with a loaf of
bread. "I hope you have good luck, Uncle Wiggily."

"Thank you very kindly," spoke the rabbit, and then he put a golden
rod flower in his button-hole and hopped on to look for his fortune.

Pretty soon, not so very long, in a little while, the rabbit came to a
nice smooth rock which was long and slanting, just like a hill down
which you slide on your sleds in the winter time. Only, of course,
there was no snow or ice now, as it was summer.

"Ha! Now if I was a little younger, and didn't have the rheumatism,
I'd slide down that rock!" exclaimed the rabbit. "I wish Sammie and
Susie Littletail were here, for they would enjoy this very much. And
so would Johnnie and Billie Bushytail, the squirrel brothers, not to
mention the puppy dogs."

Then the rabbit looked at the nice, smooth rocky slide, and all of a
sudden he heard a voice singing:

    "Lumps of pudding and pieces of pie
     My mamma gave me when I was a boy,
     And for those things I used to cry--
     For lumps of pudding and pieces of pie!"

"Hum! I wonder who that can be?" asked Uncle Wiggily, and then he
heard some one laugh and shout, and a great big boy, about as big as
two barrels of molasses, burst out of the bushes.

"Why, it's the giant's little boy!" exclaimed Uncle Wiggily in great
surprise.

"Yes, that's who I am!" cried the boy who was as large as two barrels
of molasses, and a can of condensed milk besides. "How are you, Uncle
Wiggily? Have you found your fortune yet?"

"No," said the rabbit a bit sadly, "I have not."

"Never mind," spoke the giant's little boy, "come on and have a slide,
it's lots of fun," and with that the big boy threw himself down on the
smooth rock, just as if he were on a sled, and away he whizzed down
the hill as nicely as a cake of soft soap slips into the bathtub.

"I believe I will try it!" exclaimed the old rabbit gentleman, so,
taking a firm hold of his crutch and valise he sat down on the smooth
rock, and away he whizzed down after the boy who was as big as two
barrels of sweet molasses and an ice-cream cone also.

Faster and faster went the rabbit, and faster and faster went the
giant's little boy, until, all of a sudden, the boy slipped off the
stone and landed in a big pile of hay, and wasn't hurt at all.

"I wonder if that's what will happen to me?" thought Uncle Wiggily,
and he was just looking to see where he would land, and he was hoping
it would be in a feather bed, when, as quickly as you can catch an
alligator, if ever there's one to catch, the old gentleman rabbit slid
off the rock, and down he came, plump on top of a big toadstool, and
he wasn't hurt a bit; only sort of jounced up and down like.

"My! That was a fine slide," he said. Then he looked up and he saw
that he was right on the shore of a little lake, and close at hand was
a rowboat with oars in, and on the boat was a sign which read:


                     "PLEASE TAKE A RIDE IN ME ON
                              THE LAKE."


"Ha! That is very polite of some one," said the rabbit. "I believe I
will take a ride in the boat. And perhaps I may find my fortune in
it."

Then he looked more carefully, and he saw that there was a box in the
boat, and on the box was a sign which read:


                       "PLEASE DO NOT OPEN THIS
                                BOX."


"Hum! Perhaps there is gold in there. But I won't open it to see until
some one tells me I may," thought the rabbit.

So he got into the boat, and he stuck the oars through the oarlocks,
which are places made for them, then he dipped the wide part of the
oar into the water and pulled on the handle part and, my land sakes,
flopsy-dub! Uncle Wiggily was rowing as nicely as you please.

Well, he rowed on and on, until he was out in the middle of the lake,
and then, all of a sudden, he heard a funny noise inside the box. It
was a sort of scratching, growling noise, and before the rabbit could
do anything, the top of the box flew open and out stepped a little
black bear. Oh, but Uncle Wiggily was frightened!

"Ah, ha! Now I have you, just where I want you, Mr. Rabbit," said the
bear. "This is the last of you. Burr-r-r-r!"

Well, Uncle Wiggily was so frightened that he didn't know what to do,
for he surely thought his end had come. Then he happened to remember
that he had some cherry pie in his valise, and he knew that bears are
very fond of sweet stuff.

"I know what I'll do," thought the rabbit. "I'll give the bear some
pie, and when he isn't looking I'll row toward shore, and perhaps I
can get away from him." So he quickly opened his satchel, took out the
pie and gave it to the bear most politely.

"Ha! this is very good," said the bear in a grillery, growlery voice,
as he took the pie. "I will eat this first and afterward I'll attend
to your case!"

And when the bear was eating the pie, and licking the sweet, red juice
off his clawy paws, Uncle Wiggily rowed toward shore. But he wasn't
yet quite near enough to jump out of the boat, so he gave the bear
another piece of pie and rowed a little closer to shore.

The bear was so interested in eating the cherries from the pie, and
sucking the juice off his paws, that he never noticed what was going
on. But finally he glanced up, and when he saw how near the shore the
rabbit had rowed the boat the bear cried:

"Ah! ha! So that's your trick, eh? Well, I'll scratch you, anyhow."

And with that he made a spring for the rabbit, but Uncle Wiggily was
too quick for him. Grabbing up his crutch and valise, the rabbit
jumped out of the boat and landed on shore, and then the wind suddenly
sprang up and blew the boat and bear in it out into the middle of the
lake, and Uncle Wiggily was safe, I'm glad to say, for the bear
couldn't swim to shore that day on account of having no bathing suit.

Then, hopping on, Uncle Wiggily looked all over for his fortune. But
he did not find it right away. And he had another adventure soon. What
it was I'll tell you almost immediately, which is very soon, when in
case the pink cow doesn't eat the chocolate pudding from off the back
stoop where the cook sets it to cool, the next story will be about
Uncle Wiggily at the seashore.




One morning Uncle Wiggily was hopping along a dusty road. It was the
day after he had gotten away from the bad black bear in the boat, and
the old gentleman rabbit was thinking of what great danger he had been
in.

"I must certainly be more careful," he thought, "and not get in every
boat I see. Why, just think of it! If that bear had eaten me up I
couldn't search for my fortune any more," and this so frightened Uncle
Wiggily that he looked all around and behind the bushes, fearing the
bear might, after all, have come ashore and be chasing after him.

But no bear was there, for he had fallen out of the boat and caught
cold and had gone to bed, after drinking some hot honey lemonade. The
old gentleman rabbit felt better, when he saw there was no bear, but
it was so hot that he was thirsty, so he looked for a place to get a
drink. Pretty soon he saw a nice, cold spring, and he took three
drinks of water and part of another one.

And just as the rabbit was drinking the last drop of water he heard a
funny noise out in the road, and, looking up, he saw a whole lot of
children going past. Some of them were barefooted, and some had little
tin pails and shovels in their hands, and some had red balloons and
some blue or green ones. Some of the children had on bathing suits and
a few had their little dresses tucked up as far as they could go, and
they were dancing along on their slim white legs, as happy as happy
could be.

"Why, this certainly is very strange," thought the rabbit. "I wonder
where they can all be going? Perhaps it is to a circus parade. I must
go see, for I might meet my friend the elephant there. Oh, this will
be some fun! Is it a circus parade?" he called aloud.

"No, it isn't a circus parade," said a voice at Uncle Wiggily's side,
and, looking down, the old gentleman rabbit saw the kind grasshopper
who had once given him some molasses.

"If it isn't a circus parade, what is it?" asked the rabbit.

"These children are going to the seashore to bathe and paddle in the
salty ocean waves," went on the grasshopper, "and some of them will
build sand houses, or dig wells for the water to fill up. Why don't
you go, Uncle Wiggily? Perhaps you may find your fortune there."

"I believe I will," said the rabbit. "Won't you come along?" Well, the
grasshopper said he would, so off they hopped together, the
hoppergrass--I beg your pardon,--I mean the grasshopper--and the
rabbit.

Pretty soon they heard the noise of the waves pounding on the sandy
shores, and they could smell the salt breeze and it made them hungry
for clam chowder and lobsters and crabs and things like that. Then
they saw ever so many more children running along and in a little
while they were at the seashore.

"Well, now to look for my fortune," said the rabbit, as he watched the
waves rush up on the sand with a big noise and lots of foam, and then
they would tumble out to the sea again. "How do you think I had better
go about it, Mr. Grasshopper?"

"If I were you I would dig in the sand," said the grasshopper.
"Sometimes men, who were called pirates, used to bury gold in the
sand, and perhaps there is some of their money left. You dig and I
will watch you."

"But I have nothing with which to dig," said the rabbit.

"Oh, you may take my shovel," said a little girl with her dress tucked
up high so that it would not get wet. "I am going in wading, so I
won't need it."

"Thank you kindly," said the rabbit gentleman to the little girl, and
then she went in wading, and a wave splashed up all over her, no
matter if her dress was above her knees, and her mamma called to her
to be more careful, and not to get so wet.

So Uncle Wiggily began to dig. Deeper and deeper he dug in the sand,
while the grasshopper watched him. And every few minutes Uncle Wiggily
would look down the hole to see if there was any gold among the grains
of sand, but there wasn't any.

All around were children having lots of fun. One boy made a tunnel,
and then he played that some sticks of wood were steam cars and he
pushed them through the tunnel and puffed out his cheeks to pretend it
was the engine choo-chooing.

And a little girl made a garden in the sand, with seaweed for flowers
and clam-shells for a house, and she and another little girl had a
play-party. Oh, it was great fun!

Then a big boy stretched out on the sand, and another boy covered him
all up, from the tips of his toes to the tips of his nose, and he left
his nose out so the boy could breathe. Well, the grasshopper and Uncle
Wiggily looked at all this fun going on and they were happy as they
could be. And the rabbit kept on digging the hole down in the sand,
hoping he would soon come to the gold.

And then all of a sudden, before you could count up to forty-'leven,
the hole which Uncle Wiggily was digging filled up with water, just
like a well.

"Oh, my!" exclaimed the rabbit. "This is certainly bad luck. Now I
can't find any gold. What am I to do?"

"I guess you'll have to dig another hole," said the grasshopper. "But
perhaps there is gold at the bottom of this one, after all. Let's get
a pail and dip out the water, then we may see the gold."

So the little girl who had loaned the rabbit her shovel let Uncle
Wiggily take her pail to dip out the water. But the funny part of it
was that the faster he dipped out the water the more came in, until
there was enough for two wells. Then even the grasshopper helped dip
out the water with another little pail, but it did no good.

The rabbit and the grasshopper were both so interested in what they
were doing that they didn't notice a big crab crawling up behind them,
and the first thing they knew Uncle Wiggily felt some one pinch him on
his little short tail.

"Ha! What is that?" he cried, turning around quickly, and then he saw
the crab, with its big blue claws pinching him.

"Ouch! Oh, my!" cried the rabbit. "Whatever shall I do?"

"I'll help pull him off!" shouted the grasshopper, but he was not
strong enough, and the crawly crab still clung to the rabbit's tail.

"Why are you pinching me?" asked the rabbit, as he tried to reach
around and pull off the crab, only he found he could not do it.

"I am pinching you because you dug a hole down in my sandy beach,"
said the crab, "and I'm going to hold on to you until you give me a
thousand pieces of cheese for my supper."

"Oh, I can never get that many!" cried the rabbit. "Will no one help
me get away from this crab?" But all the children had run home to
dinner and there was no one to help the rabbit, until all of a sudden,
a big wave washed up, and almost covered Uncle Wiggily.

He could just manage to breathe, and he sprang up on the beach to get
beyond the water, and the grasshopper hopped out of the way also. But
the wave was a good one after all, for as soon as the crab felt the
water sloshing up around him he let go of the rabbit's tail to swim
away, and that's how Uncle Wiggily was saved from the crab, even if he
didn't find any gold, and he was very glad his tail wasn't pinched
off.

The old gentleman rabbit remained at the seashore for several days,
and he had many adventures. And, in case I find a peanut shell with a
red popcorn ball inside of it, the next bedtime story will be about
Uncle Wiggily and the big lobster.



"Where are you going to stay to-night, Uncle Wiggily?" asked the
grasshopper of the old gentleman rabbit, after the wave had rolled up
and washed away the crab that had hold of the bunny's tail, I told you
about last, you remember. "Are you going to stay at the seashore?"
asked the grasshopper, as he looked at his left hind leg and blinked
his two eyes, sort of thoughtful-like.

"Oh, yes, I like it here very much," said Uncle Wiggily, "and I'm
going to stay, but as true as I live I don't know where I can sleep
to-night."

"Couldn't you build a sand house, such as we see the children making?"
asked the grasshopper.

"Oh, no, for in the night it might fall down on me, and the sand would
get in my ears. Or a big wave might roll up on the shore and wash me
out to sea. Oh, dear, isn't it a puzzle what to do when you are
seeking your fortune?"

"Oh, don't feel so badly over it," begged the grasshopper. "We will
look around and see what we can find."

"Where are you going to stay, Mr. Grasshopper?" asked the rabbit.

"Who, me? Oh, I am going to crawl under a leaf and sing myself to
sleep as I always do; but for you, a leaf is hardly large enough."

"Not unless it was a palm-leaf fan," spoke the old gentleman rabbit.
"But come on, we will look around."

So they hopped up and down the beach where the ocean waves were
rolling along with a booming noise. All the children had gone in by
this time, as it was getting dark and rather lonesome. Uncle Wiggily
and the grasshopper looked, and they looked, and they looked still
more, but they could find no place for the rabbit to stay. At last the
old gentleman rabbit said:

"Well, Mr. Grasshopper, you had better get along and look for the leaf
under which you are going to sleep, or else it will get so dark that
you can't find your way."

"But what will you do, Uncle Wiggily? I don't like to leave you all
alone."

"Oh, if it comes to the worst I can sleep out here on the sands, but I
don't like to do it, as the dampness will make my rheumatism worse.
But it can't be helped."

Well, the grasshopper didn't want to go away and leave his friend, the
rabbit, all alone, but Uncle Wiggily finally persuaded him that it
would be best, so the little creature hopped off and found a nice
leaf. Then he curled up on the underside of it, where, in case it
rained, he would not get wet, and he sang himself to sleep.

Well, now, I must tell you what happened to Uncle Wiggily.

At first he was quite lonesome, as he walked along the beach looking
for a place to sleep, but then he looked up at the stars shining in
the sky above him, and he saw the moon just coming up from behind the
clouds, and it was shining on the ocean waves, making them look like
silver, and it wasn't quite so dark then.

"I guess I will be all right," said Uncle Wiggily, bravely. "I'm not
going to be afraid, for I don't believe the alligator, or fox, or
bear, will come here. But I do wish I had some place where I could go
in out of the dampness."

Then he suddenly thought of something.

"I know what I'll do!" he exclaimed, as he came to a pile of driftwood
on the beach. "I'll make me a house of this wood, and put some seaweed
on top for the roof, and in that I'll sleep as nicely as if I were at
home."

Well, it didn't take Uncle Wiggily long to do this, and soon he had
built as fine a little wood-and-seaweed house as heart could wish.
Then he crawled inside with his crutch and his valise, and ate a small
piece of cherry pie, and stretched out on some soft seaweed for his
bed. In a little while he was fast, fast asleep.

Ha! But what is this funny animal crawling up along the sand with his
big claws like a pair of shears which the tinsmith or the plumber
uses? Eh? What's that? Why, as true as I live it's a big lobster that
crawled up out of the ocean to see what he could find to eat.

Oh, Uncle Wiggily had better look out now, I tell you; hadn't he? But
the poor old gentleman rabbit is still fast asleep.

The big lobster stuck out his bulgy eyes, and he moved them this way
and that way, and he even looked over his shoulder with them, and then
he saw the little house which the rabbit had made.

"Ha! I must see what is in that!" the lobster exclaimed and he crawled
toward it. "Perhaps it is something good to eat, and I am very
hungry," he said.

So the lobster looked in through the little window which Uncle Wiggily
had made, and he saw the rabbit fast asleep.

"Oh, ho! Now for a good meal!" cried the lobster. Then he took one big
claw and he softly pulled away some of the boards which Uncle Wiggily
had used to make his house. That left a hole, and through this hole
the lobster stuck his other claw, and he caught hold of the rabbit by
his two ears.

"Oh! who has me? Who is it? What are you doing? Oh, my poor ears! Let
go! Please let go!"

That is how Uncle Wiggily cried as he suddenly awakened.

"No, I will not!" exclaimed the lobster in a sort of a boiled-egg
voice. "I'm going to crawl off with you to the bottom of the ocean!"

"Then this is the last of me and my fortune," thought the rabbit. "I
might as well say good-by."

So the lobster pulled the rabbit right out of the wood-and-seaweed
house, holding him by the two long ears, and he started down the sandy
beach with him toward the rolling, tumbling ocean. Uncle Wiggily tried
to get away, but he couldn't.

Well, if you'll believe me, the big lobster nearly had the rabbit in
the rolling, tumbling waves of the surf, when suddenly a flashing
lantern showed glimmeringly over the sand, and a voice exclaimed:

"Shiver my timbers! If the big lobster hasn't caught a rabbit. Oh, ho!
And he's trying to drown him. That will never do. I will save him. Yo
ho! Heave ho!"

Uncle Wiggily looked up and he saw a big, brown, life-saving man, who
was out taking a walk along the beach with a lantern to see if anybody
needed to be saved. And before that lobster could drag the rabbit into
the water that life guard just reached over and took the lobster up by
his back, where the crawly creature couldn't pinch, and the lobster
was so frightened that he let go of Uncle Wiggily's ears at once.

"Now, hop away, Mr. Rabbit," said the life guard, kindly, and you may
be sure that Uncle Wiggily didn't waste any time hopping. "I'll attend
to this lobster," went on the big, brown man, and then the rabbit
hopped back to his wood-and-seaweed house, where he slept in peace and
quietness the rest of the night. And, as for the lobster, the man put
him in a pot and boiled him until he was as red as your coral
necklace, or your pink necktie, and that was the end of the lobster.

So that's all to this story, if you please, but in case the
clothes-wringer doesn't squeeze all the rice out of the ice-cream
pudding, I'll tell you next about Uncle Wiggily and the little clam.




Uncle Wiggily awakened in his wood-and-seaweed house in the morning,
and he rubbed his sleepy eyes with his paws. Then he got up off his
seaweed bed and as he heard a noise he exclaimed:

"Ha! That sounds like thunder. I wonder if we are going to have a
storm?" And, truly, there was quite a booming and rumbling racket
outside. Then the rabbit laughed at himself.

"Why, how silly of me!" he exclaimed. "That is the waves pounding on
the beach. I forgot that I was at the seashore. Now I must look out
and see if there are any more lobsters waiting to catch me."

Well, he was just peering out of the window, when there came a knock
on the door, and Uncle Wiggily jumped back.

"My sakes alive and some baked beans!" he cried. "What's that?"

"It is only I," said a small voice. "I'm your friend, the grasshopper.
How are you?"

"Oh, I'm very well, thank you," replied the rabbit. "I'm coming right
out. I must tell you about the terrible time I had with the big
lobster last night."

So Uncle Wiggily hopped out of the little house and told the
grasshopper all about it, and the grasshopper was so frightened that
he kept looking behind him all the while, for fear the lobster might
be coming after him. But we all know what happened to that lobster;
don't we?

"What are you going to do now?" asked the grasshopper after a while,
when Uncle Wiggily was washing his face and paws, and combing out his
whiskers, which had some seaweed in them.

"Oh, I am going to look for my fortune to-day," answered the rabbit.
"I may find it, for I have heard that often very valuable things are
cast up on the seashore by the waves. Yes, I think I shall find my
fortune to-day. But won't you have some breakfast, Mr. Grasshopper? I
have some cherry pie left, and a few lettuce and carrot sandwiches
with parsley trimmings."

"Oh, I might have a bit of parsley," spoke the jumping insect, and he
ate quite a bit of it, while the rabbit ate the other things. Then
they both hopped along the beach, looking for a fortune of gold or
diamonds for the old gentleman rabbit.

And, just as on the other day, there were children playing in the
sand, making little wells of water, and tunnels, and sandhouses, and
gardens, and castles and all things like that. But there was no chest
of gold, nor bag of diamonds, to be seen, though the two friends
looked in every place they could think of, and in some other places,
too.

"I don't believe the seashore is a very good place to find your
fortune," said the rabbit, sadly, as he hopped along. And then he had
to stop to take some sand out of his left ear.

"Perhaps if we ask some of the children they may be able to help us,"
suggested the grasshopper. Well, they did this, but, though the
children were very kind, they hadn't seen any gold or diamonds,
either.

"Then we'll ask some of the clams or starfish on the beach," said the
grasshopper, but the clams or starfish hadn't seen anything of the
rabbit's fortune, though they were very polite about it.

"Oh, I know what let's do," exclaimed the grasshopper.

"What?" asked Uncle Wiggily.

"We'll go in bathing," went on the jumping insect, "and that will cool
us off, and perhaps down under the water we may find your fortune."

"The very thing," cried Uncle Wiggily; "in bathing we shall go."

Well, the old gentleman rabbit could swim a little bit, you know, and
the grasshopper could float on his back as nicely as a fat man can,
and together they had a very good time. It was so warm that the water
didn't make Uncle Wiggily's rheumatism any worse, I'm glad to say.

Then, after a bit, the grasshopper said he thought he'd take a little
hop on the sand to dry off, and that left Uncle Wiggily alone in the
water. And now comes the second part of the story.

The old gentleman rabbit was swimming slowly along, looking down under
the waves every once in a while to see if there was any gold on the
sand beneath, when, all of a sudden, he felt something grab hold of
his left hind leg.

"Oh, my! I wonder if that's the bad lobster again?" cried the rabbit,
and then he saw a most curious fish, called the toggle-taggle, and
this fish had hold of him.

"Oh, please let go of me!" cried the rabbit.

"No, indeed, I will not," said the toggle-taggle, speaking under
water, and making a lot of bubbles come up from his breath. "I am
going to drag you off to my den beneath the rocks."

"Oh, don't be so cruel!" begged the rabbit. "If you do that I can
never find my fortune, and I never can go back and see Sammie and
Susie Littletail again."

"That makes no difference to me at all," said the toggle-taggle,
speaking in a thin, watery sort of voice, "no matter of difference at
all. Here we go!" and he started to drag poor Uncle Wiggily to the
bottom of the ocean, under the rocks.

"Ha! I guess I'm not going as easily as that!" cried the rabbit, and
at once he began to swim as hard as he could toward land, and Uncle
Wiggily could swim pretty well when he tried, let me tell you. This
time he swam so hard that he pulled the toggle-taggle fish along with
him, and in a second or two Uncle Wiggily was out on the sand, but the
toggle-taggle still had hold of him.

"Dry land or water is all the same to me!" cried the odd fish, and
then the rabbit saw that the toggle-taggle had legs, as well as fins
and a tail, and so he could walk on dry land. "Now you come with me!"
cried the bad fish, and he braced with his legs in the sand and was
pulling the rabbit back into the water again.

"Oh, will no one help me?" cried Uncle Wiggily, for he was getting
weak. And just then a little voice whispered:

"Turn him around, Uncle Wiggily, so I can get hold of his tail. Then
I'll pinch him and make him let go of you."

"Uncle Wiggily looked, and there was a nice little clam on the sand
behind the toggle-taggle, and the clam had his two shells wide open,
ready to pinch the bad fish. Well, the rabbit at once began to push
the toggle-taggle toward the clam, and the fish didn't know what this
meant. But before he could say anything, his tail came right close to
the clam's open shells, and in an instant that brave clam shut his
sharp shells down very hard on the tail of the bad toggle-taggle and
held on tight.

"Oh, who has me?" cried the fish, and he turned around to see what it
was, and with that of course he let go of the rabbit. And then Uncle
Wiggily gave a big hop and got safely away. And when the toggle-taggle
saw the clam he was so frightened (for he knew that he couldn't bite
through the hard shells) that the bad fish at once jumped back into
the ocean, taking the brave little clam with him. But the clam didn't
mind that--in fact, it was just where he wanted to go--so everything
was all right.

"My! That clam saved my life, and I didn't get a chance to thank him!"
said Uncle Wiggily, somewhat sadly, as he sat away up on the beach.
"But I will the next time I see him." Then the grasshopper came back,
and had to hear all about what had happened.

Then he and Uncle Wiggily went on looking for the fortune, and they
had some more adventures before they found it.

So in the next story, if the doorknob doesn't drop off and fall into
the boiled eggs, making a big white and yellow splash, I'll tell you
about Uncle Wiggily and the starfish.




Let me see, where did we leave off? Oh, I remember, it was where the
red monkey jumped up on the elephant's back and tickled him with an
ice-cream cone, wasn't it? No, I beg your pardon, I'm wrong. I
promised to tell you about the old gentleman rabbit and the starfish.
So if you're all ready, and are sitting comfortably, I'll begin.

It was the day after Uncle Wiggily had gotten away from the
toggle-taggle fish that walked, and the little clam had pinched the
bad creature on his tail. Uncle Wiggily was hopping along the sand at
the seashore beach, and he was looking all around for his fortune of
gold or diamonds, he didn't care much which it was, so long as he got
rich and could go back home.

"I wonder what has happened to the grasshopper?" said the rabbit, for
he hadn't seen the jumping insect that morning.

"Here I am," exclaimed the little chap, and with a hop he landed down
beside Uncle Wiggily on the sand.

"Where have you been?" asked the rabbit. "I was beginning to think
that you had left me."

"Not yet, but I am going to soon," replied the grasshopper. "You see,
there is going to be a big jumping race back where I live and the
hopper who jumps the farthest will get a bag of popcorn. And, as I
think I will go back home to jump, I came to say good-by. Afterward, I
will come here again and help you to look for your fortune."

Well, Uncle Wiggily felt a little sad to have his friend, the
hoppergrass, go away, but there was no help for it. So they shook legs
with each other, the grasshopper gave a big spring and a jump and away
over the sea he sailed to take part in the hopping races at his home.

"Well, now, I wonder what will happen to me to-day?" thought Uncle
Wiggily as he walked along the beach, looked down at the sand and
listened to the waves washing up on the shore. "Perhaps I may find a
bag of diamonds," he said.

And just then, if you'll believe me, he looked ahead and there, on the
sand, was something that looked like a black bag, with a long, thin
handle on it with which to carry it.

"Oh, ho!" exclaimed the rabbit, "I believe that is my fortune." He
hopped forward, intending to pick it up, when, all of a sudden, the
thing like a bag moved slowly along.

"Hum! That's queer," said the rabbit, "I never heard of a bag that
could move. I must see what this is." So he went up a little closer
and he saw that it wasn't a bag at all. It was a queer creature with a
long sharp tail like an ice pick, or a black lead pencil, and it was
crawling along, but the funny part of it was that Uncle Wiggily
couldn't see any legs on which the animal walked.

"Stranger and still more strange!" exclaimed Uncle Wiggily; "what can
that be?"

"If you please, I am a horseshoe crab," said a voice from under the
black shell, "and if you lift me up you can see my legs."

"How shall I lift you up, Mr. Horseshoe Crab?"

"By my long tail, like an ice pick," was the answer, and when the
rabbit did this, underneath a shell that was shaped somewhat like the
hoof of a horse, he saw the legs of the crab. They were all covered up
when the crab walked, so no one could step on his toes.

"That is very fine," said the rabbit. "Perhaps you can tell me where
to find my fortune."

"I'm sorry, but I can't," said the horseshoe crab, and then he crawled
on again, very slowly, and Uncle Wiggily hopped forward looking for
the bag of diamonds, or gold.

Well, in a little while it got quite warm on the sandy beach, and the
old gentleman rabbit felt sleepy. He yawned and he twinkled his nose
like two stars on a frosty night, and then he said:

"Oh, me! Oh, my! I think I'll lie down and take a little nap on the
sands." So he took some sticks and stuck them up in the beach, and
over them he put some seaweed to make a shady shelter, and down under
this he stretched himself out, very nice and comfortable.

Well, the first thing you know Uncle Wiggily was fast asleep. And now
listen and see what happened to him. All of a sudden, up from the
ocean, on her thin, kinky legs came a big sea spider, a creature
something like a crab. She shot forward her big, bulgy eyes, and she
saw the rabbit under the seaweed shelter.

"Ah, ha!" cried the sea spider to herself, "here is where I have a
good rabbit dinner."

Slowly and softly she went on until she was quite close to the old
gentleman rabbit, and Uncle Wiggily never awakened. Then the sea
spider began to weave a web around the rabbit, just as a land spider
weaves a web around a fly that gets into her trap. Strand after strand
of the cobwebs did the sea spider throw around the sleeping rabbit,
until Uncle Wiggily was as tightly fast as if he had been tied with
ropes.

"Now, I'll bite him and that will be the end of him," said the sea
spider, and she was just going to do this when, all of a sudden, some
of the cobweb blew down and tickled Uncle Wiggily on the end of his
twinkling nose, and he woke up.

"Ha! What's this?" he exclaimed, and then he found that he could not
move, for he was fast in the web. "What does this mean?" he asked.

"It means that I have you!" cried the sea spider, wiggling her legs
like a trolley car.

"Oh, please let me go," begged the rabbit.

"Never! Never! Never!" exclaimed the spider. Then Uncle Wiggily tried,
and he tried, and he tried again, but he couldn't get loose from the
web.

"Oh, will no one help me?" cried the rabbit. And just then, if you'll
believe me, the waves washed something up on the sand, close to where
the sea spider had Uncle Wiggily fast. And that something was a
curious little fish, shaped like a star. In fact, it was a starfish
with five sharp points to it. And that starfish heard Uncle Wiggily
calling.

"I'll help you, Mr. Rabbit!" kindly exclaimed the fish.

"Now, you get right away from here," cried the sea spider, for well
she knew that the sharp-pointed starfish could cut her cobweb in a
second. "Keep away or I'll bite you!" the spider said.

"Oh, you can't scare me!" shouted the starfish. "I'm not afraid of
you, and I'm going to help Uncle Wiggily." So the starfish began to
roll over and over on the sand like a pinwheel, a hoop, or a wheel
that has no rim, and only spokes to it. Bumpity-bump on its five
points went the starfish, until it was close to Uncle Wiggily.

Then right into the sea spider's cobweb rolled the sharp-pointed
starfish until, with his points, he had cut the web all to pieces and
set Uncle Wiggily free, as easily as you can eat bread and jam on
Saturday afternoon.

"Now you get away from here!" cried the starfish to the spider, and he
threw sand at her until the crawly creature was glad enough to go back
into the ocean where she belonged. And the old gentleman rabbit
thanked the fish very much, and gave him a piece of lemon pie, because
he was all out of the cherry kind.

"Now, I must hurry on to seek my fortune," said Uncle Wiggily, for the
day was cooler now. So on he hopped, and he had another adventure.

In case the dishpan doesn't fall down off the nail, and smash the
watermelon all to pieces, so there's no supper for the little mouse
who lives under the ice-box, I'll tell you next about Uncle Wiggily
and the slippery eel.



My, how it did rain! The water just dripped down from the clouds as if
it came from a fountain turned wrong side up, and as Uncle Wiggily
walked along the seashore beach, with a toadstool held over him for an
umbrella he thought he had never seen such a storm.

"But, I can't stay indoors, because it rains," he said to himself as
he started out that morning to look for his fortune. "That would never
do. A little water can't hurt me, and besides, with this toadstool
umbrella, it isn't as bad as it might be."

So he hopped along, leaning on his
red-white-and-blue-striped-barber-pole crutch, and with his valise
strapped to his back, and holding the toadstool umbrella over his
head. And he felt so happy in spite of the rain that he sang a little
song.

Illustration: Uncle Wiggily and the Eel

It went something like this, to the tune of "Hum tum-tum ti
tiddle-i-um:"

    "I feel so very happy,
        No matter if it rains,
    For I don't ride on trolley cars,
        Nor yet on railroad trains.

    "Whenever I feel thirsty,
        I take a drink of tea,
    Or, if I can't find any,
        Why, milk will do for me.

    "I haven't found my fortune,
        Perhaps I never can,
    But I can hop upon the beach,
        And beat an old tin pan."

And just then the gentleman rabbit saw an old tin pan lying on the
sand, and he went up to it and pounded on it with his crutch. Not hard
you understand--not so hard as to hurt it, but enough to make a noise
like a drum.

"There, perhaps that will wake the people up," thought the rabbit for
the beach was very lonesome in the rainstorm, with no children
building sand houses, and no one in bathing. So Uncle Wiggily beat the
tin pan again, and made a great racket, and, all of a sudden something
glided out from under the pan. It was something long and thin, and it
had a long, thin tail.

"Oh, my! It's the bad snake!" cried the rabbit, and he jumped back so
quickly that he dropped his toadstool umbrella and the rain came down
on the end of his twinkling nose. He was just about to hop away as
fast as he could when the long, thin creature, who had been under the
tin pan, exclaimed:

"I'm not a snake."

"No? Then pray tell what you are?" asked Uncle Wiggily quickly.

"I am a slippery eel," was the answer. "Just see if you can hold me,
and that will show you how slippery I am."

So Uncle Wiggily very politely took hold of the eel by the tail. But,
my goodness me, sakes alive and a piece of ice! In an instant that
slippery eel had slipped away.

"What did I tell you?" the eel called to the rabbit, as he crawled
back toward the tin.

"Well, you are certainly very slippery," said Uncle Wiggily. "I hope I
didn't squeeze you too hard."

"Oh, pray do not mention it," said the eel, politely. "I am used to
being squeezed, and that's why I'm so slippery; in order that I may
get away easily."

"I hope I didn't wake you up from your sleep under the tin pan," went
on the rabbit, who was very kind-hearted.

"Pray do not mention that, either," said the slippery eel, who was
very polite. "It was time I awakened, anyhow. But, since you have been
so nice about it, if ever I can do you a favor please let me know."
Then he stood up on the end of his thin tail and made a low bow, and
slipped into the ocean.

"Ha! That is a curious sort of chap," said Uncle Wiggily as he hopped
on. "I should like to meet him again, when I have more time to talk to
him. But now I must look for my fortune." So he went on looking along
the beach in the rain, but never a bit of his fortune could he find.

Now, in a little while, something is going to happen. In fact it's
time for it now, so I'll tell you all about it. As Uncle Wiggily was
hopping along the beach, where some bushes grew close down to the
water, he thought he saw something shining in the sand.

"Perhaps that may be a diamond," he said. "I'll dig it up." So he got
a nice pink shell with which to dig, and he set to work, laying aside
his toadstool umbrella, and not minding the rain in the least.

Then, all of a sudden, up behind the bushes came sneaking the old
fuzzy fox. He had been looking all over for something to eat, but all
he could find were hard shell clams, and they were too rough on his
teeth, so he couldn't eat them.

"Oh, but there is a soft, delicious morsel!" exclaimed the fox, as he
saw Uncle Wiggily digging in the sand, and the fox smacked his lips,
and sharpened his teeth on a stone. "Now I will have a good dinner,"
he added.

So he crept closer and closer to Uncle Wiggily, and the old gentleman
rabbit never heard him, for he was busy digging for his fortune.

"Now the thing for me to do," thought the fox, "is to spring out on
him before he has a chance to move. And I think I can do it, because
his back is toward me, and he can't see."

So the fox got ready to spring right on Uncle Wiggily and maybe carry
him off to his den in the woods, and the old gentleman rabbit didn't
know a thing about it, but kept on digging for his fortune.

"Here I go!" said the fox to himself, and he crouched down for a
spring, just as your kittie does when she plays she is after a mouse.
Up into the air leaped the fox, right toward the rabbit. And then,
suddenly a voice cried:

"Look out, Uncle Wiggily! Look out!"

The rabbit glanced up, but he was down in the sand hole and he
couldn't get out quickly on account of his rheumatism. Right toward
him the fox was springing, and then, all at once, the slippery
eel--for it was he who had called to the rabbit--the kind eel wiggled
up out of the ocean. Up along the beach he crawled quickly, until he
was right in front of the rabbit in the hole. Then the eel stretched
out like a piece of rope and waited.

And then the fox came down on his four feet, but, instead of landing
on Uncle Wiggily he landed right on the slippery eel, and that eel was
truly as slippery as a piece of ice. Right out from under him slipped
the feet of the old fuzzy fox, and down he fell. Slippery, sloppery,
slappery he went, sliding along on the eel until he slid all the way
off and plumped into the ocean, where he was nearly drowned, for the
water got in his nose and mouth and eyes.

"Now, you can get away, Uncle Wiggily," said the eel, and the rabbit
kindly thanked the slippery creature, and grabbed up the shining thing
he had dug out of the sand, for he thought it was a diamond. Then the
fox slunk away, taking his wet and bushy tail with him, and Uncle
Wiggily was safe for that time, anyhow, and the eel wiggled along
after the old gentleman rabbit, who thought he had better look for a
good place to sleep.

But he soon had another adventure, and I'll tell you what it was on
the next page, when, in case the parlor lamp doesn't go out to a
moving picture show and melt all the ice in the gas stove, the bedtime
story will be about Uncle Wiggily and the horseshoe crab.




"My, that was a narrow escape!" said the rabbit to the slippery eel,
after the fuzzy fox had gone away, as I told you in the last story. "I
never can thank you enough."

"Oh, that is a mere nothing!" said the slippery eel, as he dug his
tail down in the sand, modest-like. "I am always happy to do a
kindness for my friends."

"You are certainly slippery," said the rabbit, "as slippery as a
rubber doormat on a wet day. But look at this thing which I dug up
just before the fox jumped for me. I think it is a diamond, and if it
is, I will get rich, and I can go home and see my little rabbit
grandchildren, Sammie and Susie Littletail." Then he held out to the
slippery eel the shining object he had found in the sand.

"Alas! Alas!" sorrowfully exclaimed the eel, as he looked at the
shining thing.

"What's the matter; isn't it a diamond?" asked the rabbit.

Then the slippery eel said this in a sing-song voice:

    "Alas, alas,
     'Tis only glass.
     It is no good
     To eat for food.
     It will not do
     For me or you.
     Throw it away;
     Some other day
     Your fortune may
     Come past your way."

"Ha, I did not know you could make up verses," said the rabbit in
surprise.

"I didn't know it, either," answered the eel. "That is the first time
I have ever done such a thing," and once more he dug his tail down
into the sand, real modest-like and shy.

"Well, if that is only glass, instead of a diamond, I may as well
throw it away," said the rabbit.

"Yes," agreed the eel, and with a flip of his tail he sent the glass
spinning out into the heaving ocean.

"More bad luck for me," thought the rabbit, but he did not give up,
and, bidding good-by to the slippery eel the rabbit set off down the
beach to look for his fortune once more.

By this time it had stopped raining and he didn't need the toadstool
umbrella, so he stuck it up in the sand in order that the next person
who came along might sit under it and get out of the sun.

Well, Uncle Wiggily went on and on. He saw the children in bathing,
and building sand houses, and he saw the fishermen going out to sea to
catch fishes and lobsters, but still he couldn't see anything of his
fortune.

Then, pretty soon, in a little while, not so very long, the old
gentleman rabbit came to a place on the sand where there was a little
white card. And on the card was some writing, which read:

                      "DIG HERE AND SEE WHAT YOU
                              CAN FIND."

"Ha, hum! I wonder what that means," thought Uncle Wiggily, as he sat
down on the sand to rest himself. "I wonder if that can be a trick?"
He had been fooled so many times that he made up his mind to be
careful now. So he looked all around, but he couldn't see anything
that looked like danger.

To be sure, there were some bushes up on the beach, a little way off,
but there seemed to be no one in them. And there was no one on the
beach near where the rabbit was.

"I guess I'll take a chance and dig," thought Uncle Wiggily. So he
laid aside his valise and crutch and began to dig in the sand with a
clam-shell. Deeper and deeper he went down until he began to feel
something hard.

"Oh, ho!" he exclaimed. "I guess I'm getting close to it. This must be
a chest of gold or diamonds that the pirates or robbers buried in the
sand years ago. Now, I'll dig it up and I'll be rich. This is a lucky
day for me!"

So he dug deeper and still deeper until he had partly uncovered
something black and round. He thought sure it was a chest of gold, and
he dug faster and faster, until all of a sudden something slipped in
the sand and rolled out into the hole Uncle Wiggily had dug, and,
before he knew it, he found himself slipping down and there he was,
held fast by one paw, under a big black stone. It was a stone he had
found under the sand and not a chest of gold at all.

At first he was too surprised to say or do anything, and then, as his
foot began to pain him, he cried out:

"Oh, dear! Oh, dear! I'm caught in a trap, and I can't get out!"

"No, indeed, you can't get out!" exclaimed a voice at the edge of the
hole, and, looking up, the rabbit saw a big wolf.

"Oh, did you put that card there on the sand, telling me to dig?"
asked Uncle Wiggily reproachful-like.

"I did," answered the wolf, showing his teeth in a most impolite grin.
"I wanted to catch you under the stone and I did. The stone rolled out
of the sand when you had dug down deep enough to loosen it, and now
you are fast. I'm going to jump down on you presently, and tickle you
until your ribs ache."

Well, Uncle Wiggily felt pretty bad on hearing this, and he didn't
know what to do. The wolf was getting ready to spring down on him,
when, all at once the rabbit heard a voice whispering down to him:

"Say, Uncle Wiggily, you just ask that wolf if he is a good jumper.
He'll say he is, and then you ask him if he can jump on top of the
round stone he sees on the sand near the hole. He'll say he can, for
he is very proud, but, instead of jumping on a stone, he'll jump on
me, and then I'll stick him with my sharp tail, and he'll run away.
Then I'll help you get loose."

"But who are you?" asked the rabbit, somewhat puzzled.

"I am the horseshoe crab," was the answer. "I'm up here on the sand,
and I look just like a stone, and I'll pretend I really am one. The
wolf can't understand my talk, so it's safe. You just ask him to jump
on me."

So Uncle Wiggily looked up at the wolf, and said:

"Mr. Wolf, since you are going to tickle me anyhow, would you mind
showing me what a good jumper you are before you do it?"

"Of course not!" said the wolf, who was very proud of his jumping.
"I'll jump anywhere you say, and then I'll jump down and get you."

"Very well," said Uncle Wiggily, slow and sad-like, "just jump on that
round stone up there on the beach, will you?"

"I will," said the wolf, and he didn't know that what he thought was a
stone was only the horseshoe crab waiting to stick him with his sharp
tail.

So the bad wolf gave one big jump up into the air, and down on top of
the horseshoe crab he came, and the crab just stuck up his sharp
pointed tail, and it tickled that wolf in the ribs so very much that
the wolf had to laugh whether he wanted to or not, and he laughed so
hard that he had a conniption fit, and so he couldn't get the rabbit.

Then the horseshoe crab dug away the sand around the stone, and helped
Uncle Wiggily get his leg out, and the rabbit was safe, and he thanked
the crab, and hopped away and the wolf didn't get him after all.

So that's all to-night, if you please, but the next Bedtime Story will
be about Uncle Wiggily and the pink shell--that is if the red lobster
doesn't pinch the stove's legs and make it dance a hornpipe on top of
the washtubs.




Uncle Wiggily was lame the next day after he had been caught under the
stone when the wolf nearly got him, and the horseshoe crab had dug him
out. You see the stone pressed on his leg that had rheumatism in it,
and it hurt the old gentleman rabbit very much.

But he was quite brave, and when he got up in the morning, even though
he could hardly limp along, he decided that he would hop down the
sandy beach at the seashore and see if he couldn't find his fortune
there.

"It is certainly taking me quite a long time to get rich," he said to
himself as he slowly moved along over the soft sand, "and perhaps I
may never find any diamonds or gold. But no matter, I am enjoying
myself, and that is something. Still, I would like to see Sammie and
Susie Littletail again."

And when he thought of the two little rabbit children he was a bit
sad. Then he decided that would never do, so he cheered himself up by
singing a little song that went something like this:

    "Don't be sad,
     Just be glad,
     For the sun is shining.
     Don't be blue,
     For it's true
     Clouds have silver lining.

    "Sing and dance,
     Hop and prance,
     Make some one feel jolly,
     Go 'way, care,
     Don't you dare
     Make me melancholy."

"Ha, hum! I feel much better after that," said Uncle Wiggily, and he
moved his whiskers sideways and up and down, and twinkled his nose,
and then he went on looking for his fortune.

Pretty soon he came to a big snail that was crawling slowly along the
beach.

"Have you seen any gold?" asked the rabbit.

"No, I am sorry to say I have not," said the snail, slowly and
carefully. "But I have not gone very far this morning. I have only
traveled about as far as from one orange seed to another, and that is
not very far, you know. Perhaps later I may find some gold."

"Then have you seen any diamonds?" asked Uncle Wiggily.

"No, but I saw a dewdrop inside a flower sparkling in the sunshine,"
said the snail, "and it was brighter than a diamond."

"That is very pretty, but it is not my fortune," said the rabbit. "I
must keep on." So on he went, singing his jolly song, and he kept
humming it, even when the sun went behind a cloud, and it looked as if
it were going to storm. The waves of the ocean grew into big billows,
and they dashed up on the beach with a booming, thundering sound.

"I think we are going to have a shower," said the old gentleman
rabbit. "I must look about for another toadstool umbrella." So he
found one growing in the grass a little distance from the water, and
he picked it. Then, strapping his valise over his shoulder, he hopped
ahead, leaning on his crutch.

Pretty soon, not so very long, it began to rain. My! how the drops did
come pelting down, harder and harder, but Uncle Wiggily didn't get wet
because of his toadstool umbrella. And then, before you could eat a
stick of peppermint candy, something hard hit the old gentleman rabbit
on the nose.

"Ha! My umbrella must be leaking!" he cried. Then there came a flash
of lightning, and a loud clap of thunder, and something else hit Uncle
Wiggily on the end of his nose.

"Oh, I hope I'm not struck by lightning!" he cried. So he looked up,
and he saw that his toadstool umbrella was full of holes, and the
reason of this was that it was hailing instead of raining. The rain
drops had turned into little round chunks of ice, just like white
pebbles, and they were pelting down, and had torn the rabbit's
umbrella all to pieces.

"Whatever shall I do?" cried Uncle Wiggily, as he tossed aside the
toadstool. "That is of no use to me now, and there is no place where I
can go to get in out of the rain. Oh, my! How those hailstones hurt!"
And indeed they did, for they were as large as bird's eggs now, and
they were bouncing down all over, and hitting Uncle Wiggily on his
ears and nose and all over.

He tried to hold his crutch over his head, but that did no good, and
then he tried to hold up his valise with the cherry pie in it to
shelter himself, but that did no good, either.

"Oh, I'll be knocked to pieces by the hailstones!" the rabbit cried.
"Where can I go? Oh, if I only had a shell house such as the snail
carries on her back, I would be all right."

"Here is a house for you!" cried a little voice, and looking to one
side Uncle Wiggily saw his old friend the grasshopper, and that
grasshopper was beneath a big pink shell that was on the beach, with
one edge raised up like a shed. "Crawl under the shell, and the
hailstone can't hurt you!" went on the hoppergrass. "This pink shell
is the best kind of a house."

"Well, I do declare--so it is!" agreed Uncle Wiggily, and he lost no
time in crawling under the pink shell which was just the color of
baby's cheeks. Then how the hailstones did rattle down on that shell!
It was just like peas or dried corn falling into a tin pan.
Rattle-te-bang! Rattle-te-bang! went the hailstones, but they couldn't
hurt the grasshopper or Uncle Wiggily now, for the chunks of ice hit
on the hard shell and burst to pieces.

Then, all of a sudden Uncle Wiggily heard some one crying. Oh, it was
such a sad, pitiful voice.

"Oh, what shall I do? Where can I go?" wailed the voice.

"Some one needs help," said the rabbit quickly.

"Maybe it's a bear," suggested the hoppergrass.

"Nonsensicalness!" exclaimed the rabbit. "I'm going to look out." So
he peered out from under the edge of the big pink shell, and he saw a
little baby crab crawling along with a basket of seapeanuts in little
bags on one claw.

"Oh, I'm so miserable!" cried the little crab. "I started out to sell
peanuts, but the hailstones burst the bags open, and the peanuts came
out and they're all wet, and no one will buy wet peanuts. What shall I
do?"

"Come right in here," said Uncle Wiggily kindly. "We'll help you." So
the little crab crawled beneath the pink shell, where the hailstones
couldn't hit him, and when the storm was over the old gentleman rabbit
and the grasshopper built a fire, and they dried out the peanuts. Then
the grasshopper took some of his molasses and he glued the torn bags
together, and Uncle Wiggily put back the dry peanuts in them, and then
the little crab went off very happy, indeed, and sold them for a penny
a bag.

"Ha! The pink shell did us a great kindness," said the old gentleman
rabbit, as he hopped out. "Now I will look once more for my fortune."
Then the grasshopper flew away over the sea again and the rabbit went
on alone, eating a few peanuts the baby crab had given him.

And he soon had another adventure. What it was I'll tell you soon, for
the story will be about Uncle Wiggily and the fiddler--that is, if the
piano stool doesn't turn into a merry-go-'round and whirl about so
fast that it makes the milk bottle dizzy.




It was the day after Uncle Wiggily had taken shelter under the pink
shell when the hailstones came down, and the old gentleman rabbit was
walking along the sandy beach, looking to see what he could see.

"You never can tell when you are going to find your fortune in this
world," he said, "and I may come upon mine any moment. So I must be
ready for it." Then he went on a little farther, and he felt hungry.
"Perhaps there is a bit of cherry pie still in my valise," he said. So
he looked, and, sure enough, there was some pie, and he ate it.

It was nearly all gone, and there were only a few crumbs of the pie
left, when the old gentleman rabbit heard some one say:

"Oh, how hungry I am! Oh, if I only had something to eat. I wonder
where I can find anything?"

Then the rabbit looked down, and there was the slow-crawling snail,
looking very hungry indeed.

"Oh, ho! So it's you, is it?" asked the rabbit. "Why, it seems to me
you are not very far from the place where I last saw you."

"That is so, I am not," answered the snail. "You see I go very slowly
and in a whole day I only moved about as far as an ice-cream cone. I
have been looking for something to eat, but I can't find it."

"Oh, I'll gladly give you what I have left," spoke Uncle Wiggily, as
he scattered the crumbs of the cherry pie about, and the snail ate
them all up.

"I don't s'pose you have seen anything of my fortune, have you?" asked
the rabbit, as he wiped his whiskers on a red napkin, and closed up
his valise.

"No, I haven't," said the snail. "But I will tell you something I
overheard to-day and perhaps that will help you. As I was crawling
slowly along I heard two sand fleas talking together. One said to the
other that there was going to be a grand dance of all the sand fleas
on the beach to-night and that there would be plenty of gold and
diamonds at the party. Perhaps if you went to it you might find your
fortune--that is, if some one had any gold or diamonds they didn't
want."

"That's a good idea," said the rabbit. "I'll be there, and I'm much
obliged to you for telling me. Where do the sand fleas hold their
dance?"

"Down on the beach by the wreck of the old sailing ship," answered the
snail. "Be there at the hour of midnight, and I hope you will find
your fortune."

"I'll be there," said the rabbit. "Oh, I'll be there."

Then the snail crawled away, and Uncle Wiggily hopped along on the
sand, but he didn't look for his fortune as he thought he would find
it at the fleas' party.

"Since I am going to be up quite late to-night," he said, "I had
better take a little sleep now." So he stretched out under some
seaweed that he laid over some driftwood for a shady shelter and soon
he was fast asleep. Then, after a while, he awakened and ate his
supper and soon it was midnight, and he set off toward the place where
the wreck of the old ship was on the beach, for there the sand fleas
were to have their hop and dance.

As he came near the place, the old gentleman rabbit heard laughter and
talking, and he saw tiny lights flitting about. Then he came still
nearer, and he saw a most curious sight. All around in the sand were
little pieces of wood, set in a circle, and on each piece of wood was
a lightning bug. They lighted up the place like small electric
lanterns.

There was a large circle of sand, and inside of that was the ballroom
where the dance was to take place. It was all decorated with seaweed
and moss, and it looked very pretty with lightning bugs scattered here
and there in the green drapery like fairy lights.

And then the sand fleas! Oh, there were hundreds of them, and they
were hopping all about, sometimes over each other's backs and around
corners and through the middle, while some even turned somersaults,
and they were having a glorious time.

"I wonder when the dance is going to begin?" thought Uncle Wiggily. "I
wish it would soon start, for I see that these fleas have on many
diamonds, and they also have lots of gold in their pockets. Perhaps,
when they dance they will drop some of the gold and diamonds, and, in
case they don't want them, I can pick them up and have them for my
fortune."

Then, all of a sudden, some of the fleas began to cry out:

"Where is the music? Why doesn't the music start, so that we can
dance?"

And surely enough, there was no music for the party. Then a big gray
flea called out:

"Alas, and lack-a-day! We will have no music! I had hired a dozen
Katy-Dids and a dozen Katy-Didn'ts to come and play for us, but they
have just telephoned that they can't come, as their legs are stiff. So
we can have no dance, as we have no music."

"Oh, how perfectly dreadful!" cried a blue lady flea.

And just then some of the other fleas saw Uncle Wiggily looking in at
them from behind the old wrecked ship.

"Perhaps the rabbit can play for us," said some of the fleas. "Can
you, Mr. Rabbit?"

"No, I can't," he said, and he felt very sorry for them. "But I will
see if I can find some one who can," for Uncle Wiggily was very
kind-hearted, and always did what he could to help.

So he strolled down the beach looking for some one to play for the
sand fleas. And as he walked along he met a fiddler crab, which is a
crab with very long legs. And as soon as he saw that fiddler crab
Uncle Wiggily knew that the long-legged creature could make music.

"Will you come and play for the fleas' party?" asked the rabbit. "I
will make a fiddle out of my crutch and some seaweed for strings, and
you can play it."

"I will," said the fiddler crab, kindly, "but who will play the drum?
We need a drum. Who will play it?"

"I would if I had a drum," said the rabbit, bravely.

"I'll be the drum," suddenly cried a voice, and up from the ocean
popped a fish called the puff fish or sea robin, and he can make
himself look like a blown-up paper bag full of wind. "I'll be the drum
and you can make me go 'Boom! Boom!'" said the blow-fish.

"Fine!" cried Uncle Wiggily. "Come on back to the sand fleas' party
with me." So the fiddler crab and the drum fish went along. Then the
rabbit soon made a fiddle, with seaweed for strings, and the fiddler
crab played it with his long legs, making tunes like "Please Buy Me an
Ice-Cream Cone and Take Me on the Merry-go-'Round."

And the drum fish puffed himself up like a balloon, and Uncle Wiggily
beat him with a soft stick, and there was fine music. Then the sand
fleas hopped and danced about until they could hop and dance no more.

But they didn't drop any gold or diamonds, and, when the party was
over, the rabbit was as poor as when it started. But still he didn't
mind. Then he went to sleep under a pile of seaweed, while the sea
robin and the fiddler crab went home in the ocean.

And on the next page, in case the egg beater doesn't get stuck on the
rolling-pin and make the pie crust fall through the nutmeg grater,
I'll tell you about Uncle Wiggily and the watermelon.




"Well," asked the slow snail of Uncle Wiggily, as he met the old
gentleman rabbit on the beach next day, "did you get any of your
fortune at the fleas' party?"

"None at all," answered the old gentleman rabbit. "There was plenty of
gold and diamonds to be seen, but the fleas didn't give me any."

"Perhaps they forgot it?" suggested the snail. "Some of the fleas are
very forgetful. I once knew one whose mother sent him to the store for
a pound of sugar and a quart of milk, and what do you s'pose he
bought?"

"I don't know," answered the rabbit, curious-like.

"He got a pound of milk and a quart of sugar, and the milk all ran out
of the paper bag in which the groceryman put it, and the sugar stuck
fast to the milk pail, and they had a dreadful time getting it out.
That shows you what a flea will do sometimes. Perhaps if you ask them
for your fortune they will give it to you."

"I'll do it the next time I meet one," decided Uncle Wiggily. "But now
I must go on and look for myself."

Illustration: Uncle Wiggily and the Watermelon

"Wait until I sing a little song for you," said the slow snail, and he
hummed this song very, very slowly:

    "When I am in a hurry
        I slowly crawl along,
     And when I finish crawling
     I sing a little song.

    "For if I hurried too much
        I'd get there all too soon,
     Though some day I am going
     To climb up to the moon.

    "And then when I get up there
        I'll sleep the whole long day,
     Or crawl upon the moonbeams,
     Or jump into the hay."

"Ha! hum!" exclaimed Uncle Wiggily. "That's a very good song, and I'm
sure it will help me find my fortune. Now I must say good-by and
travel along."

"If you will wait I'll come with you," spoke the snail. "But then I
s'pose you are in a hurry, Uncle Wiggily, and I go too slow for you."

"That's it," said the rabbit kindly, and he gave one big hop that
carried him twice as far as the snail could travel in a week of
Sundays without counting Christmas.

Well, it wasn't very long after this before Uncle Wiggily got to the
top of a hill. When he started to climb up from the bottom he thought
perhaps there might be gold at the top, but when he did get to the
summit all he found there was a big green thing, with stripes on.

"I wonder what this can be?" thought the rabbit. "It looks like a
baseball, and yet it's too large for that, and besides it isn't quite
round. And, once more, it's green instead of white, for all baseballs
are white. Ha! I know what it is. That must be a football which the
boys kick about. I guess I'll kick it. Perhaps there may be gold
inside."

So he got ready to kick it, but you know how it is with old gentlemen
rabbits who have the rheumatism and have to go about on a crutch. As
soon as Uncle Wiggily lifted up one foot--the one that had no
rheumatism in it--and when he leaned on his crutch, the crutch
suddenly slipped, and down he went ker-flumux ker-flimix all in a
heap.

"Well, here's a pretty kettle of fish!" he cried. "I ought never to
have tried to kick that green football. I should have waited until it
was ripe."

So he sat down on top of the hill, and looked at the ocean tumbling
and foaming on the beach below him, and he waited for the green
football to get ripe. And, every once in a while he would poke it with
his crutch to see if it was getting soft, but it wasn't.

And once, right after he did this, the old gentleman rabbit heard some
one cry out:

"My goodness, Uncle Wiggily! What are you doing?"

"Waiting for this green football to get ripe so that I can kick it,"
was the rabbit's reply.

"Oh, ho! Oh, ha!" laughed the grasshopper for it was that leaping
insect who had spoken, "that is not a football, it is a watermelon,
and inside it is all red and sweet and juicy. Come, if you can, cut it
open, we will have a fine feast. I haven't had any watermelon in some
time. Can you cut it?"

"Oh, I can cut it fast enough," declared the rabbit. "Here goes, and I
hope it is better looking on the inside than it is on the outside."

So the rabbit took out his knife, with which he usually spread his
bread and butter, and he cut a hole in the watermelon. Then Uncle
Wiggily and the grasshopper scooped out all the nice, red, juicy part
and ate it.

And, would you ever believe it? Something happened right after that.
They had no sooner wiped the red watermelon juice off their faces than
there was a terrible roaring sound in the bushes, and out jumped a big
black bear. Oh, he was going on something frightful, yes, really he
was, but don't be frightened, for I won't let him hurt anybody. I'll
let him chew on my typewriter first and that will dull his teeth. On
the bear came, straight for the watermelon.

"Oh, what can I do?" cried Uncle Wiggily. "That bear will get me, but
he won't hurt you, Mr. Grasshopper, as you are so small."

"Don't worry," said the hoppergrass, kindly. "I'll find a way to save
you. Quick! Before the bear sees you, hop inside the watermelon," for
you see they had eaten up all the inside, and left the melon rind
hollow, just like a yellow pumpkin Jack-o'-lantern, at Hallowe'en.

Uncle Wiggily saw that this was the best thing to do, so inside the
melon he hopped, and then the grasshopper put back in place the piece
they had cut out, and you never would have known but that the melon
was a whole, new one, never having been cut and the inside eaten out.

On came the bear, sniffing with his black nose. Then he saw the
grasshopper and asked, suspicious-like:

"Is there a rabbit around here?"

"I don't see any," spoke the grasshopper, and he really couldn't see
any one but the bear because Uncle Wiggily was inside the melon, you
know.

"Well, if there is no rabbit I'll have to eat this watermelon, then,"
said the bear, "for I am very hungry."

Now the grasshopper knew that if the bear once bit into the melon and
opened it, he'd see the rabbit hiding inside. So what did the
hoppergrass do but give the melon a shove with his strong hind legs,
and down the hill the melon rolled, with the rabbit in it, just as
Buddy Pigg, the guinea pig boy, once rolled down hill inside a
cabbage.

Faster and faster down the hill rolled the melon, with Uncle Wiggily
in it, and then the bear saw one of the rabbit's paws sticking out of
a crack.

"Oh, ho! You have fooled me!" cried the bear to the grasshopper. "Now,
I'll chase after that melon and get the rabbit, too!"

So the bear started down the hill after the melon, but his foot
slipped and he slid down, oh, so fast, that he got to the bottom of
the hill first. There he stood waiting for Uncle Wiggily. But a queer
thing happened. The melon hit a stone, burst open and out flew the
rabbit on a pile of soft sand. But the pieces of the melon hit the
bear on his soft and tender nose, and he thought he was surely killed,
and off he ran to the woods howling and growling. So that's how Uncle
Wiggily escaped from the bear, for the old gentleman rabbit wasn't
hurt a bit for all his tumble.

Then he washed the pieces of melon off his clothes, and traveled on
again, with the grasshopper, to seek his fortune. And he had another
advantage soon. I'll tell you about it very shortly, when, in case the
ice man doesn't go skating and forget to leave us a loaf of bread, the
next Bedtime story will be about Uncle Wiggily and the Katy-Did.




"Well, what are we going to do to-day?" asked the grasshopper of Uncle
Wiggily, as they sat down to breakfast one sunny morning, after a rain
the night before.

"Oh, I suppose I must keep on searching for some gold or diamonds for
my fortune," answered the old gentleman rabbit. "But I am getting
quite tired of going around so much and finding nothing. I'll keep it
up a week or so longer, and then, if I don't find any money, I'm going
back home, anyhow. I'm quite lonesome for Sammie and Susie Littletail
and all of my friends."

"When you go home I hope that I can go with you," said the grasshopper
sort of sad-like. "I'll be sorry when you leave me."

"Of course you can come along," answered Uncle Wiggily, kindly, as he
flopped his long ears back and forth.

Then he and the grasshopper finished their breakfast, washed the acorn
cups and saucers, and shook the crumbs off the green leaf which they
had used for a table cloth. And pretty soon a whole lot of little
black ants crawled along and ate up all the crumbs, so that nothing
was wasted.

"Well, here we go!" cried the old gentleman rabbit cheerfully as he
picked up his barber-pole crutch and slung his valise over his
shoulder. Then he hopped off and so did the grasshopper, singing a
funny little song on the way, and also playing the fiddle with his
left hind leg. The song went something like this:

    "Here we go,
    Fast and slow,
    Hopping on our way.
    In heat and cold
    We look for gold,
    Which we may find some day.

    "Sing a song
    Not too long,
    Cheerful, gay and bright.
    When wide awake
    We eat sweet cake,
    And then we sleep all night.

    "Hipping, hopping,
    Without stopping
    We sing and do not cry.
    Skip and jump
    Around the pump;
    Now we'll say good-by."

"Why, what in the world did you say that for?" asked Uncle Wiggily of
the grasshopper as the insect finished his song. "There is no one here
to whom we can say good-by, and not a sign of a pump."

"I know it, but you see I'm just making believe," replied the cheerful
little fellow, turning one somersault and part of another one.

"Oh, then that's different," agreed the old gentleman rabbit, as he
stooped over to take a stone out of his shoe. And, just as he did so
there came bouncing down out of a tall tree a big green hickory nut,
and it almost hit Uncle Wiggily on the end of his twinkling nose.

"Hum!" exclaimed the grasshopper, as he crawled under a big leaf in
order to be out of danger, "some one is throwing things at us. I
wonder who it can be?"

"I don't know," answered the rabbit, and then he and the grasshopper
looked up in a tree, but they could see no one. So they went on a
little farther, and pretty soon Uncle Wiggily got another stone in his
shoe. He stooped over to take it out when slam-bang! down came a green
butternut this time, and it struck him on the end of his left ear.

"This must stop!" cried the old gentleman rabbit. "If it doesn't, the
first thing we know there will be cocoanuts falling down on us and
then we will be hurt."

"Oh, I think there are no monkeys around here to throw cocoanuts at
us," said the grasshopper, "but this is certainly very strange.
Perhaps it is the alligator or the fuzzy fox up in a tree trying to
hurt us by throwing the little nuts."

"Perhaps," agreed Uncle Wiggily. "Well, we will hurry on, and get out
of these woods." So they hurried all they could, but as it happened
the grasshopper got a big wooden splinter in his left front leg and it
took him and Uncle Wiggily quite a while to get it out, and when at
last they did so, it was almost night.

They were hopping along, looking for a place to sleep in the woods,
when all of a sudden down came a big black walnut, and it hit Uncle
Wiggily's crutch, bouncing off with a bang.

"Who did that?" cried the rabbit looking up as well as he could in the
darkness. "Who threw that nut?"

"Katy did!" cried a shrill voice up in a tree. "Katy did!"

"Oh, she did; eh?" exclaimed the old gentleman rabbit. "Well I always
thought Katy was a nice little girl. I can't believe she'd throw
anything at me. It's not possible!"

"Katy did--she did!" cried the voice in the tree again.

"Oh, would you ever think such a thing of her?" asked the grasshopper,
who was quite excited.

"No, I wouldn't," declared Uncle Wiggily sad-like. "Where does Katy
live?" he went on. "Perhaps if I speak to her, and tell her how
unpleasant it is to have nuts thrown at one she won't do it again.
Where does she live?"

"Katy did! Katy did! Katy did!" was all the voice said.

"Of course! I know that by this time," said Uncle Wiggily. "But where
does she live? Whereabouts in these woods?"

"Katy did! Katy did!" cried the voice again.

"Ah, I see!" exclaimed the grasshopper, "That means she once did live
here, but that she has moved away. That must be it."

"Then I'm glad of it," spoke the rabbit. "I hope she doesn't come back
to throw any more things at us. Do you think she will?" and he looked
up in the tree to see who had been talking so about Katy.

"Katy did! Katy did!" was all the answer there was.

But all of a sudden there was a rustling in the bushes, and out into
the moonlight, which was then shining in the forest, there came a
little white pussy cat, with four legs and a long tail.

"Oh, dear!" she cried. "I'm Katy, and I heard what you all said about
me. But I didn't do it at all. I didn't throw a thing at you, Uncle
Wiggily, or at the grasshopper either. I wouldn't do such a thing. Oh,
how can you believe it? I didn't do it at all."

"Katy did! Katy did!" cried the shrill voice up in the tree-top. "Katy
did--she did!"

"Ha, hum!" cried the old gentleman rabbit. "This must be looked into.
If Katy didn't do it, we mustn't have her talked about that way. Come,
Mr. Grasshopper, we'll see who's calling out about Katy so much."

But just as the rabbit was helping the grasshopper to climb up the
tree, to see who it was that had been calling, all of a sudden out
from behind a stump there sprang a savage fox, who wanted to eat up
Uncle Wiggily and the pussy and the grasshopper also. But the rabbit
happened to see a hole in the ground.

"Quick! Jump down here all of you!" he cried and he helped the pussy
and the grasshopper to get into the hole where they would be safe from
the fox. And, as they disappeared under ground the voice up in the
tree-top cried once more:

"Katy did! Katy did!"

"Oh, ho! I'll put a stop to that to-morrow!" declared Uncle Wiggily.
"Don't cry, Katy, dear. I'll see that whoever is bothering you will
stop." Then the little white pussy dried her tears, and the three
friends slept safely in the hole all night, and the fox did not bother
them a bit.

And the next day Uncle Wiggily found out who was calling to Katy, and
who threw the nuts at him, and I'll tell you about it on the next
page, when the story will be about Uncle Wiggily and Katy-Didn't--that
is, if the trolley car doesn't run up on the front stoop and break the
rocking chair's arms so I can't sing the rag doll to sleep.




Katy, the nice little white pussy, was the first one to awaken the
next morning in the hole where she and Uncle Wiggily and the
grasshopper had crawled to get away from the bad fox. Katy arose,
washed her face and her paws with her red tongue, and then she softly
tickled the grasshopper on his nose with the end of her fuzzy-wuzzy
tail.

"Ha, ho! What's the matter?" cried the grasshopper, as he hopped out
of the bed made of dried leaves. "Is the house on fire?"

"No, we're not in a house, but in a hole under ground so I don't very
well see how it could catch on fire," spoke Katy. "I wanted you to get
up and help me with the breakfast. I thought we would let Uncle
Wiggily sleep late this morning, as he is tired."

"That's a good idea," declared the little jumping chap. "I'll just
take a hop outside and see what I can find to eat."

Well, the grasshopper started to go out of the hole, leaving Uncle
Wiggily fast asleep, but, all of a sudden the tiny jumping fellow came
back, and, instead of being green, as he usually was, he had turned
quite pale.

"What's the matter?" asked Katy.

"The hole is stopped up!" cried the grasshopper. "Some one has filled
up the front door with dirt and we can't get out."

"Oh, that's too bad!" said the pussy, and she and the grasshopper
looked at the lightning bug, who was shining brightly like a Christmas
tree-candle down in the dark hole so they could see. He had shone all
night for them. "How will we ever get out?" went on the pussy. "It is
terrible to be shut up here."

"What's that? Is there more trouble?" suddenly asked Uncle Wiggily, as
he got out of bed feet first.

"Yes," said the grasshopper, "the front door of the hole is stopped
up, and we can't get out. I think the bad fox did it."

"Very likely," agreed Uncle Wiggily. "But don't worry, for I can
easily dig out the dirt, and then we can go up and find out who it was
that said Katy threw nuts at us when she didn't."

So Uncle Wiggily went to the front door of the hole-house and began to
dig with his strong feet. And then he happened to think of something.

"If I dig a new front door near the place where the fox stopped up the
old one," said the old gentleman rabbit thoughtful-like, "that bad
creature may be there waiting to grab us when we go out. So I'll play
a trick on him. I'll dig a new door for this hole-house and we'll go
out that way. I'll dig it at the back."

So Uncle Wiggily did this and soon there was a nice opening from the
hole underground, and it was some distance away from the one by which
the three friends had gone in. And, surely enough, they looked through
the trees when they went out, and there was that bad fox near the
stopped-up hole, waiting for them to come out so that he might grab
them.

"I guess he'll wait there a long while for us," said Uncle Wiggily,
blinking his nose, and laughing. "Come on now, very quietly and we'll
go off in the woods where he can't find us." So away through the
forest they went, and the fox never saw them. He stayed by the hole,
which he had stopped up with dirt and stones, and he was there a week,
waiting for the rabbit and his friends to come up. And the fox got so
thin from having nothing to eat in all that time that when he finally
did go away his tail nearly dropped off and blew away.

But Uncle Wiggily, and the grasshopper, and the pussy whose name was
Katy traveled on and on. Over the hills they went, and through the
fields, but they couldn't find out who it was that had said Katy had
thrown the nuts when she didn't do it at all.

At last they came to another forest, and just as night was coming on,
and Uncle Wiggily was passing under a tree, slam-bang! down came
another butternut, and nearly hit him on the eye.

"There! You see, I didn't throw that," cried Katy, who was walking
beside Uncle Wiggily.

"Yes, it couldn't have been you," agreed the old gentleman rabbit. "I
wonder who did it?"

"Katy did! Katy did!" suddenly cried a voice.

"No, she didn't," said Uncle Wiggily, firmly. "Who are you to say such
things?"

"Here he is--I see him!" exclaimed the grasshopper. "It isn't any one
at all--it's a little green bug with wings, and he is something like
me. He's been saying that 'Katy did' when she didn't do it at all."

And, sure enough, there on a tree was a little light-green bug, and,
as Uncle Wiggily watched, he heard this insect call out as bold as
bold could be:

"Katy did! Katy did!"

"Now look here!" said the old gentleman rabbit, and he pointed his
long ears and his crutch at the green bug, "why do you say such things
when you know they aren't so? Katy never threw any nuts at me--they
just dropped down off the tree themselves. I'm sure of it. Katy never
did it, and she feels badly to have you say so."

"Katy did! Katy did!" cried the insect again, as if he hadn't heard
the rabbit speak. "I have to say it, you know," he went on, as he
scraped his two long hind legs together. "I have to call out that Katy
did, Uncle Wiggily."

"You do? Even when she didn't do it?" asked the rabbit,
surprised-like.

"Yes," said the insect. "Katy did! Katy did! I have to call--Katy
did."

"Oh, I think it's just too horrid for anything!" said poor Katy,
almost ready to cry.

"I wish you wouldn't say such things about a nice pussy," spoke the
grasshopper. "For Katy didn't do it. I know she didn't."

And just then, off in another tree, there came a second voice calling:

"Katy didn't! Katy didn't!"

"There, I knew some one would be kind to me!" exclaimed the pussy.
"Some one knows I didn't do it. I didn't throw the nuts."

"Katy did! Katy did!" cried the first green insect.

"Katy didn't! Katy didn't!" answered the second little green chap.

"She did!" went on the first one.

"She didn't! Katy didn't!" answered his brother, positive-like.

"Katy did!" "Katy didn't!"

"Oh, my, this dispute is very unpleasant!" said Uncle Wiggily. "Please
stop it." But the green insects wouldn't stop, and they kept on
calling. First one would say that Katy did do it and then the other
would say she didn't, and so they went on:

"Katy did!" "Katy didn't!"

"Well," said Uncle Wiggily at last, when he had tried to make them
stop disputing, but couldn't do it, "at any rate, Katy, you have some
friends who will stand up for you, and who will always say you didn't
do it, and I know you didn't, no matter if the others say you did. Now
let's find a place to sleep, and to-morrow I will once more look for
my fortune."

So they found a nice hollow stump in which to sleep, and nothing
happened to them all night, except that a big-eyed, feathery owl tried
to bite the grasshopper. But Uncle Wiggily tickled the bad bird with
his crutch and made him fly away, and then they all slept in peace and
quietness until morning.

The next day the old gentleman rabbit had quite an adventure. I'll
tell you what it was in the following Bedtime Story which will be
about Uncle Wiggily and Peetie Bow Wow--that is, if my piece of
huckleberry pie doesn't fall into the milk pitcher and turn it
sky-blue-pink like the elephant's lemonade at the circus.




Katy, the little white pussy, felt quite happy the next day, after she
and Uncle Wiggily and the grasshopper had slept in the hollow stump,
as I told you last.

"No matter if some of the green insects do say I did throw those
nuts," she said, "others of them will say I didn't do it, so it will
be all right." And from then on, even up to the present time, you can
hear the did and the didn't insects calling to each other in the cool
night:

"Katy did!" "Katy didn't!" That's how they dispute, and they never
seem to settle it.

"Where are you going?" asked the old gentleman rabbit as he saw the
pussy starting off by herself in the woods, when breakfast was over.

"Oh, I am going back home," she said. "I have been away too long
already, and my mamma will be worried about me. But I am very glad to
have met you and the grasshopper, and I hope you will soon find your
fortune, Uncle Wiggily."

"I hope so too," spoke the rabbit, and then he and the grasshopper
started off together through the woods, looking on all sides for any
signs of gold or diamonds.

They traveled on for many miles, but I'm sorry to say they didn't find
any fortune at all--not even so much as a five-cent piece with a hole
in it. When noon came they sat down by a little spring of water and
built a fire. Then the rabbit roasted some carrots and the grasshopper
ate a small piece of cherry pie, and some bread and jam, for he was
very fond of sweet things.

"Well, we'll travel on again," said the rabbit, as he scattered the
crumbs for the ants to eat.

"Why don't you stay here and look for your fortune?" asked the
grasshopper, wiggling his ears.

"Oh, it would be of no use," said Uncle Wiggily. "Haven't we looked
all over in these woods? And we didn't even find a diamond ring. No,
we must travel on."

"Why don't you dig a hole here by this old stump?" asked the
grasshopper. "Perhaps there is a gold mine here. It is nice and shady,
and you can dig deep and keep cool. I will sit on the stump and watch
you, and also sing a song now and then."

"Perhaps that will be a good plan," agreed Uncle Wiggily, after
thinking it over. "I believe I will dig here. It can do no harm and it
may be of some use." So, laying aside his crutch and his valise, he
began to dig in the earth with his sharp feet.

"My! I'm making a regular mine!" thought Uncle Wiggily, after a while.
"But there doesn't seem to be any gold here. However, I'll go down a
little deeper."

And then, all of a sudden he heard the grasshopper cry:

"Look out, Uncle Wiggily! Look out! The alligator is coming!"

"Oh, me! Oh, my!" shouted the rabbit, as he tried to jump up out of
the hole he had dug. But it was too deep and he only fell back to the
bottom. He heard the whirr of the grasshopper's wings as that hopping
chap flew away, and as the grasshopper skipped over the daisies he
cried out:

"I'll go get help, Uncle Wiggily!" for he knew he couldn't fight the
alligator all alone.

"Oh, whatever shall I do?" thought the rabbit. "I must get out." So he
gave another jump, but it was of no use, and then before Uncle Wiggily
could twinkle his nose twice, over the edge of the hole leaned the
skillery-scalery alligator.

"Ah, ho! So there you are!" cried the scaly creature, smiling such a
big smile that it is a wonder the top of his head didn't fly off. "So
you are in a hole? Well, that suits me, for you can't get away, and I
can take you whenever I please. I guess I'll wait until I am a little
more hungry. Meanwhile I'll sit here and look at you."

And the alligator did this, perched on the edge of the hole, with his
mouth grinning from ear to ear and his tail slowly switching to and
fro, to keep off the flies from his scaly hide.

"Are you really going to bite me?" asked the rabbit, sad-like.

"I am," replied the alligator, in a nutmeg-grater voice.

"Would you let me go if I gave you my barber-pole crutch and my valise
filled with cherry pie?" asked Uncle Wiggily, sorrowful-like.

"Not for worlds!" cried the alligator, smacking his jaws. "I'm going
to bite you now." And with that he started to crawl down into the hole
to get the rabbit.

But don't worry. Some one is on the way to save Uncle Wiggily. All of
a sudden, just as the alligator was almost down to Uncle Wiggily, and
only the tip of his tail was sticking out over the edge, there was a
movement on the other side of the hole, and, looking up, the rabbit
saw a curious sight.

There was some sort of an animal peering down at him. But such an
animal! His tail was all stuck up with stickery burrs, and it had a
lump of mud on the end. On one ear was stuck a big green leaf, and on
the other ear was a piece of red paper from a Chinese lantern. And on
his back were chestnut burrs and bits of briar bushes; and this animal
grinned and showed his teeth and shook himself so that mud was
scattered all over. Then this animal cried:

"Here, you bad alligator! Get away and let that rabbit alone!"

"What for; do you want to bite him yourself?" asked the
skillery-scalery alligator creature, grinning from ear to ear.

"No, I don't," answered the dreadful looking animal. "But you get away
from here or I'll eat you!" And, my! you should have heard that muddy
creature growl. No, perhaps it's just as well you didn't hear him, or
you might have bad dreams. Anyhow, that new, queer animal growled so
that even the alligator was frightened, and Uncle Wiggily said to
himself:

"Oh, worse and worse! If the alligator doesn't get me this terrible
creature will!"

Then the terrible creature growled some more and showed his teeth and
the alligator crawled out of the hole and scurried away, taking his
scaly tail with him.

"Ha! Ha! That's the time I fooled you!" cried the terrible looking
animal, and then he burst out laughing and took the paper and leaf
from his ears, shook out the burrs from his tail, and whom do you
s'pose it was? Why none other than Peetie Bow Wow, the nice puppy dog.

"Oh, you saved my life!" cried Uncle Wiggily, thankfully.

"Yes, he certainly did," said the grasshopper, perching himself on the
edge of the hole. "I met Peetie in the woods and told him about you,
and he rolled in the mud and water and stuck himself all up with
burrs, so as to make himself look as terrible as possible and scare
the alligator. It was a good trick; wasn't it?"

"It was, indeed!" cried the rabbit, as the grasshopper and the puppy
dog helped him out of the hole; "even if I didn't find my fortune."

So the alligator didn't get the rabbit, and Uncle Wiggily had another
adventure next day. I'll tell you what it was very soon for the
following story will be about Uncle Wiggily and Jackie Bow-Wow--that
is, if the picture on the wall doesn't turn upside down and scare the
parlor lamp so that it goes out on the porch to sit on the door mat.




Uncle Wiggily, with the grasshopper, and Peetie Bow-Wow, the little
puppy dog, were traveling along the road together, and the old
gentleman rabbit was looking on both sides for his fortune. It was the
day after Peetie had saved Uncle Wiggily from the bad alligator, and
the three friends had spent the night in a hollow stump in the woods.
Then they had breakfast, eating some cherry pie that the rabbit had
left in his valise.

"Tell me, Peetie," said Uncle Wiggily, as they tramped along, "how
does it happen that you are so far from home; and what were you doing
in the woods just before you scared the alligator away?"

"Oh, my brother Jackie and I came to visit our grandpa, who lives
somewhere around here," said the puppy dog. "Yesterday Jackie and I
went for a walk in the woods, and I got lost. It was then that the
grasshopper found me and asked me to come and help you."

"Which you kindly did," said the old gentleman rabbit, as he brushed a
mosquito off his twinkling nose. "But I didn't know you were lost,
Peetie. Why didn't you say something about it? And here you've been
away from your grandpa's house all night and he and your brother
Jackie may be very much worried. Why didn't you tell me about this
yesterday?"

"Well, I thought you had troubles enough of your own," said Peetie
politely, as he looked down in a puddle of water to see if his tail
was fastened on straight. "But I would like very much, Uncle Wiggily,
to find my way back to grandpa's house, and see Jackie," he went on.
"And I know he'll be glad to see you."

"Then we must start off at once and look for your grandpa's house,"
decided the old gentleman rabbit. "I will let my fortune go for
to-day, and we will take care of you."

So off they started, looking for the house of Peetie's grandpa. The
puppy dog helped them look, of course, but he was too small to be of
much use. Every once in a while he would find a nice juicy bone, and
he would stop to gnaw that instead of looking for the path back home.

"Oh, you mustn't do that," said Uncle Wiggily, as he leaned on his
crutch to rest himself. "There will be time enough to eat bones after
you are home. Trot along now, Peetie."

"Well, I'll just bury this bone here, where Jackie and I can get it
later," said Peetie. So he dug a hole for the bone and carefully
covered it with earth, where it would keep just as good as if it was
in a refrigerator or an ice-box.

Well, the rabbit and the grasshopper and the puppy dog looked in all
the places they could think of, and around corners and up and down the
middle and on both sides, for a sight of the house of Peetie's
grandpa, but they couldn't seem to find it.

And then, all of a sudden, and so quickly that it happened before you
could roll a popcorn ball on top of the piano, there was a growling in
the bushes, and a shaking of the leaves, and out popped a big, black
bear. My! Oh, my! But he was a big, savage bear, and as soon as he saw
Uncle Wiggily he cried out:

"Now I have you, my fine rabbit friend! And a puppy dog also, to say
nothing of a grasshopper, with which to finish off. Oh, this is a
lucky day for me!"

"You--you don't mean to say that you are going to eat us, do you?"
asked Uncle Wiggily, turning pale around the ears.

"That's exactly what I do mean," said the bear in a grillery-growlery
voice. "And how very lucky! It's just my dinner time," and he looked
at his watch to make sure, and then shut the cover with a bang.

"Well, you can't eat me!" cried the grasshopper and with that he gave
a spring and landed inside of a Jack-in-the-Pulpit growing on top of a
high rock, and he pulled the cover of the plant over him so the bear
couldn't see him.

"Well, the grasshopper got away," said the bear in a disappointed
voice, "but I have you two yet, anyhow," and with that he made a jump,
and grabbed Uncle Wiggily in one paw and Peetie Bow-Wow in the other
paw. Then he hugged them tight, just like a little girl hugs, her two
dollies, and the bear looked down at them, first at Uncle Wiggily and
then at Peetie. And that bear showed his ugly teeth, and said in his
grillery-growlery voice:

"Let me see; which one of you shall I eat first?"

Well, you can just imagine how frightened Uncle Wiggily and the puppy
dog were. They didn't know what to do.

"I think I'll eat you first, Mr. Rabbit," said the bear at length, and
he was just getting ready to eat Uncle Wiggily, as you would eat a
strawberry, when there was a rushing sound in the bushes back of that
bear, and a brave voice called out:

"No, Mr. Bear, you're not going to eat either one of them. Put Uncle
Wiggily down at once and let go of Peetie Bow-Wow. At once, I say!"

"Ha! Who are you?" cried the bear, turning around quickly in order to
see better. "Who are you, if I may ask?"

"I'm Jackie Bow-Wow," was the answer, "and if you don't at once do as
I say I'll shoot you with my gun!"

Well, you can just imagine how surprised Uncle Wiggily and Peetie were
to see Jackie standing there as brave as a lion, pointing a black gun
at the black bear.

"I'm not going to let them go!" cried the bear, savagely, and he
hugged the rabbit and the puppy dog tighter than ever.

"Then I'm going to shoot!" cried Jackie. "One--two--three!" he
counted. "Here I go! Bang!"

"Oh, don't shoot! Don't shoot!" begged the bear, and he quickly
dropped the rabbit and the doggie and then he ran away through the
bushes, taking his little stubby tail with him. Then Jackie burst out
laughing as hard as he could.

"What's the matter?" asked Uncle Wiggily, in surprise.

"Ha! Ha!" laughed Jackie. "What a joke on that bear! I didn't have a
real gun at all. It's only a wooden one, with which I was playing hunt
Indians. But he thought it was a real one, and he was so scared that
he let you go. Ha! Ha! Ho! Ho!"

"It's a good thing you came along when you did," said his brother
Peetie. "We were just looking for grandpa's house. I was lost, you
know, and couldn't find my way back."

"I know you were and I was looking for you," spoke Jackie. Then Peetie
told him about the alligator and where he had been with Uncle Wiggily,
and Jackie was very glad to see his brother and the old gentleman
rabbit again, and he was soon ready to show them the way to his
grandpa's house.

But they had forgotten about the grasshopper in the
Jack-in-the-Pulpit, and a very curious thing happened to that poor
insect. I'll tell you about it on the next page, when the Bedtime
Story will be named "Uncle Wiggily and the Red Monkey;" that is, if
the rubber ball doesn't bounce into the rice pudding and scatter it
all over the clean tablecloth.




Uncle Wiggily, with Peetie and Jackie Bow-Wow, was walking along the
road toward the puppy dogs' grandpa's house, and they were talking how
Jackie had made the black bear run away by pointing a make-believe
wooden gun at the savage creature. All at once the old gentleman
rabbit exclaimed:

"That grasshopper!"

"What about the grasshopper?" asked Jackie. "Did one bite you, Uncle
Wiggily?"

"No, but my friend, the green grasshopper, jumped into a
Jack-in-the-Pulpit when the bear came, and here we have come away and
forgotten all about him. We must go right back."

So back they started, and on the way the rabbit told what a kind
friend the grasshopper had been to him on his travels. Well, they got
to the place where the bear had scared them, but when they looked up
on the rock no Jack-in-the-Pulpit was to be seen, and there was no
sign of the grasshopper.

Illustration: Uncle Wiggily and the Monkey

"I'm sure it was here that the grasshopper made his jump," said Uncle
Wiggily, looking carefully about.

"Yes," said Jackie, "but there is no Jack-in-the-Pulpit on this rock
at all."

"Here is a pile of dirt, though," spoke Peetie. "Perhaps there is a
bone under it. Let's dig, Jackie."

So those two puppy dogs dug in the earth while Uncle Wiggily looked
all around for the grasshopper. Then, all of a sudden, Peetie cried
out:

"Oh! Look here! The Jack-in-the-Pulpit is under this pile of earth!
The top is just sticking out. Now, we'll find the hoppergrass."

"I see how it is," said the rabbit. "When the bear ran away so fast
from Jackie's wooden gun the toenails of the savage creature scattered
up the earth, and it went in a shower all over the Jack where the
grasshopper was hidden. No wonder we couldn't find him, for he was
buried. But please dig very carefully, Peetie and Jackie, or you might
scratch him with your paws."

"We will be careful," said Jackie. So he and his brother dug and dug,
until the Jack-in-the-Pulpit was almost uncovered. Then they didn't
dig any more, but, with their tails, which were like dusting brushes,
they dashed off the earth very gently, until the plant was all clear,
and out popped the grasshopper, not a bit harmed, though he was
somewhat frightened.

"My! I thought I'd never get out!" exclaimed the jumping chap, taking
a long breath, and blowing the dust off his legs.

Then he was introduced to Jackie Bow-Wow, whom he had not met before,
and the four friends trudged along the road together. Pretty soon they
came to the house of Grandpa Bark, and the old gentleman dog was very
glad to see Peetie, who had been lost, and had stayed away all night.

"And I am very glad to see you also, Uncle Wiggily," said Grandpa
Bark, "and likewise the grasshopper. Come in and have something to
eat, and stay awhile to rest yourself."

So Uncle Wiggily did this, and after a bit he said:

"Well, now, I must be off once more to seek my fortune. When I find it
I am going back home, and I hope that soon comes to pass, for I am
tired of traveling about."

So he said good-by to Peetie and Jackie Bow-Wow, and he and the
grasshopper hopped off together. On and on they went, over the hills
and dales, through the woods and fields, and pretty soon they came to
a place in the woods where there was a big box. It was almost as large
as a small house, and it had a front door to it, but no windows. The
front door was open and over it was a card reading:

                      "COME IN, IF YOU WANT TO."

"Ha, hum! I wonder if that means me?" said Uncle Wiggily. "Perhaps I
may find my fortune in there. I'm going inside."

"I wouldn't if I were you," spoke the grasshopper. "It may be a trap."

"Nonsensicalness!" exclaimed the old gentleman rabbit, quick-like.
"Come along. We'll go in."

So he and the grasshopper went inside, but no sooner had they entered,
than slam-bang! down came the sliding door with a crash, catching them
fast there just like mice in a trap.

"Oh, what did I tell you!" cried the grasshopper, sadly. "This is a
trap! We're in it."

"Yes, I see we are," spoke Uncle Wiggily, much puzzled. "It was all my
fault. I should have been more careful."

"Never mind," said the grasshopper, kindly, as he wiped away his tears
on a piece of green leaf. "I see a crack between the boards that I can
crawl through. It is too small for you, but I can get out, and I'll go
for help."

So out he crawled, leaving Uncle Wiggily there. The old gentleman
rabbit was thinking of the dreadful things that might happen to him,
when, all of a sudden, he heard some one unlocking the front door that
had fallen shut.

"I must see who that is!" whispered the rabbit to himself. So he
peered out of a crack, and he saw something red and fuzzy-like at the
door. "Oh, it's a red bear!" thought the rabbit, and he was looking
for a place to hide, when all at once the door opened and there stood
a nice, kind red monkey, with a red cap on.

"Oh, I've got company, I see!" cried the red monkey in delight. "I'm
glad of that, Uncle Wiggily. I've been waiting some time to see you.
How did you get here?"

"Isn't--isn't this a trap?" asked the rabbit.

"Not a bit of it!" cried the red monkey with a jolly laugh. "This is
my house. I went out this morning and left the door open. It must have
blown shut by mistake. I'm sorry you were frightened. Wait, I'll do
some tricks to make you laugh."

So the red monkey stood on his nose, and then on one ear, and then he
made all the letters of the alphabet on his tail, all except the
letter "X," which is very hard for a monkey to make. Then the monkey
took two apple pies and made them into one, and he and Uncle Wiggily
ate it, and my! how good it was. By this time the rabbit wasn't
frightened any more, and he told the red monkey all about his travels
to find a fortune. And then the grasshopper came hopping back with Old
Dog Percival to help Uncle Wiggily get out of the trap, but there
wasn't any need, for it was no trap at all, you see.

So the red monkey and the dog and the grasshopper and the old
gentleman rabbit had a nice time at the house of the red monkey, who
told them many stories, and one was how he came to be colored red.

I'll tell you about that as soon as I can, when, in case the fishpole
doesn't go out in the rain and catch cold, the Bedtime Story will be
about Uncle Wiggily and the butterfly.




"You have a very nice house here," said Uncle Wiggily to the red
monkey after they had all sat down, and Old Dog Percival had been told
that there was no need to rescue his rabbit friend from a trap.

"Yes, it is a fine little house," said the red monkey. "I built it
away off in the woods so as to be nice and quiet. You see I used to
live with the monkey who plays five hand organs at once, but finally
it got so that I couldn't stand the music any longer, so I went off by
myself and made this little house."

"But how did you happen to get splashed with that lovely red color?"
asked the grasshopper, "that is if you will excuse me asking you such
a personal question."

"Pray do not mention it, I beg of you," said the red monkey as he
tossed up a lump of coal and caught it on his nose. "I will gladly
tell you how I became colored red. It was this way: I was writing a
letter to a friend of mine and I had no more black ink left. I didn't
know what to do until I happened to think that out in the yard back of
my house on a bush were some red raspberries. I gathered some of them
and put them in a teacup.

"Then, with the potato-masher, I crushed them all up until the red
juice ran out. Then I had the loveliest red ink you ever saw. But just
then a fly lit on the end of my nose. I went to brush him off with the
potato-masher when I happened to hit the cup full of red juice by
mistake.

"Well, you can imagine what happened. The raspberry juice splashed all
over me until I looked like a strawberry ice-cream cone, and I've been
red ever since."

"It's a very fine color," said Uncle Wiggily.

"Yes," agreed the monkey with a sigh "but sometimes it's quite a
trouble. All the turkey gobblers and the bulls in the fields chase me
whenever they see me, for they don't like red. I'm thinking of taking
some dandelions and coloring myself yellow next year. But, now tell me
of your travels, Uncle Wiggily."

So the old gentleman rabbit did so, mentioning how he was searching
for his fortune, but couldn't find it. Then Percival told about when
he used to be in a circus and do tricks, and the grasshopper told how
he made his music by playing the fiddle with his left hind leg, and
then the red monkey gave them all some chocolate-cocoanut pudding and
it was time to go to bed.

Now, I have something sad to tell you, but please don't get alarmed,
for I'll make it come out right at the end. In the middle of the night
poor Uncle Wiggily was taken ill. He had a dreadful pain, and he was
as hot with a fever as a stove with a fire in it.

"I am afraid you have been traveling about too much," said the red
monkey, as he lighted a lamp and gave the rabbit a drink of cool
water. "We must have Dr. Possum see you in the morning."

"Perhaps I ate too much chocolate-cocoanut pudding," said Uncle
Wiggily. "Oh, how I suffer, and how hot I am."

Well, they did all they could for him by putting his paws in mustard
water and giving him sweet spirits of nitre, but it didn't seem to do
any good.

"Yes, he is a very sick rabbit," said Dr. Possum, who came in the
morning. "He ought to be home in bed, but we can't move him now. He'll
have to stay here."

"Oh, the grasshopper and Old Dog Percival and I will take good care of
him," said the red monkey, kindly.

"Yes, I guess you will," agreed Dr. Possum. So he left some bitter
medicine for Uncle Wiggily and the old gentleman rabbit took it
without even wrinkling up his nose--and it was very, very bitter--the
medicine I mean, and not his nose.

"Oh, how hot I am!" cried Uncle Wiggily, as the sun got higher and
higher in the sky and beat down on the house where the red monkey
lived. "I wish I had some ice." Then he fell asleep.

"We will see if we can't find some," said the grasshopper, so he and
the monkey and Old Dog Percival started off to look for an ice-house,
leaving Uncle Wiggily asleep. Pretty soon he awakened.

"Oh, I wish I had an electric fan to cool me!" cried the poor sick old
gentleman rabbit. "Oh, how hot I am! Oh, dear!"

Well, he kept getting hotter and hotter, and tossed to and fro on the
bed, and he wished for ice, and ice-cream cones and all such cool
things as those. Then, all of a sudden, when he was so warm he
couldn't seem to stand it any longer he heard a little voice singing
this song:

    "Away up North in the ice and snow,
     That's the place for you to go.
     Where wintry winds do always blow,
     And the polar bear's on a big ice floe.

    "Where seals dive down in the icy sea,
     Where it's far too cold for a bug like me,
     Where snowflakes fall so you cannot see,
     That is the place for you to be."

"Oh, I'm sure it is," cried poor Uncle Wiggily. "I wish I was up there
in the Arctic regions. But I can't go. Oh, if I only had an electric
fan to cool me off!"

"I'll be an electric fan for you," said the voice, and turning his
head, Uncle Wiggily saw, perched on the window-sill, a beautiful big
butterfly, with red and yellow wings. Then the splendid creature flew
right up on the rabbit's pillow, and began to wave his wings. Faster
and faster the butterfly's wings went until you couldn't see them
move--just like an electric fan. And a cool breeze swept over poor,
hot Uncle Wiggily, and made him feel much better.

Then the butterfly fluttered harder than ever, and he sang another
song about ice-cream freezers and blizzards and snow and hail and
icebergs and polar bears and all cool things like that, and he kept on
fanning the rabbit with his wings, and before he knew it Uncle Wiggily
went fast asleep again.

Then, in a little while, the grasshopper and the red monkey and Old
Dog Percival came back with some ice and they gave the rabbit a cool
drink, and the butterfly kept on fanning him. And soon Dr. Possum came
in, and he said:

"Well, I do declare! Uncle Wiggily is all well again. The butterfly
with his cool wings and cold songs has cured him."

Then the rabbit thanked the beautiful winged creature very kindly and
got ready to go on seeking his fortune again next day. He had quite an
adventure, too, and I'll tell it to you on the next page, when, in
case the little boy across the street doesn't lose his mittens inside
a watermelon and freeze his rubber boots, the story will be about
Uncle Wiggily and roast potatoes.




"Well, how are you feeling this beautiful morning, Uncle Wiggily?"
asked the red monkey, as he knocked on the door of a hollow stump
where the rabbit had spent the night. "Are you all better?" the red
monkey went on, as he took a cocoanut out of his pocket and looked
inside the shell to see what time it was.

"Oh, yes, I am much better, thank you kindly for asking," said the
rabbit. "But how comes it that you are here? I thought you were off in
the woods."

"So I was," answered the monkey, as he nibbled a little bit of the
cocoanut. "But I came here to keep you company and help you look for
your fortune."

"Ha! But where is my friend the grasshopper?" asked Uncle Wiggily,
sort of anxious-like.

"Oh, he had to hop away in the night to see a sick cousin of his,"
spoke the red monkey, "and on his way he jumped past my house and
asked me if I wouldn't come and stay with you while he was gone. He
said you might be lonesome. So I came."

"It is very kind of you, I'm sure," said the rabbit. "I like company.
I think I am all well and strong again, for the butterfly, who
pretended he was an electric fan, made me nice and cool and I am much
better. I am ready to start off now and look once more for my fortune.
Are you coming?"

"I am," said the red monkey, looking at his tail to see if a pink cow
had stepped on it. But no pink cow was there, so after Uncle Wiggily
had put some cherry pie in his valise he and the monkey started off
together.

And, on the way, the red monkey--who was red, you know, because some
red ink which he made from raspberry juice splashed on him--this red
monkey, as he and Uncle Wiggily walked along, tossed the cocoanut up
in the air and caught it as it came down. Sometimes the monkey would
catch the cocoanut in his left paw and sometimes in his right, and
again in his left foot, and still again in his right foot. So
altogether he had quite an exciting time, you see.

Well, Uncle Wiggily looked on all sides for his fortune, but he
couldn't seem to find it. The red monkey helped him, too, but it was
of no use. On and on they went, over the hills and through the woods
and across the fields, until finally they came to a place where there
were a whole lot of stones made into a sort of a fireplace, as if some
boys had built it to play camp, and hunt the Indians, only, of course,
you know, there aren't really any Indians to hunt any more.

"Hum suz dud!" exclaimed Uncle Wiggily, as he sat down on a log, and
looked at the stone fireplace, "I wonder what this is for?"

"I don't know," said the monkey, as he made the cocoanut whiz about
like a merry-go-round, "I don't know what it is for, but I should say
it was very lucky for us."

"Why so!" asked Uncle Wiggily, and he wiped the dust off his
red-white-and-blue-barber-pole crutch on his fuzzy ears. "Why is this
lucky for us?"

"Because," answered the monkey, "here are some potatoes growing in
this field next door, and here is a place to make a fire. It is nearly
dinner time, so there is nothing to stop us from having some roast
potatoes for our lunch."

"Fine!" cried Uncle Wiggily. "I don't believe the man who owns the
potatoes will mind if we take a few. I'll dig them with my paws, and
we'll cook some."

"And I'll make the fire," said the red monkey as he looked about for a
puddle of water. You know, he wanted the water puddle to use as a
looking-glass, in order to see if any of the red had come off him yet.
But there was no water, so he didn't bother, but instead he gathered
the wood, and soon he had made a fine fire in the stone fireplace.
Then along came Uncle Wiggily with some potatoes which he had dug, and
they were put in to roast.

My! how the fire did blaze when the monkey kept putting sticks of wood
on it. And how the potatoes roasted and crackled there in the heat!
Oh, how nice they smelled, too! It makes me hungry for some, and as
soon as I finish this story I'm going out and roast some just as Uncle
Wiggily did.

But you children mustn't do it unless your papa, or mamma, or big
brother or sister is near, in case any sparks got on you and burned
you. But the red monkey and Uncle Wiggily were very careful. To be
sure some smoke got in the monkey's eyes, and he looked as if he were
crying, and some smoke got up Uncle Wiggily's twinkling nose and made
him sneeze, but they didn't mind that.

"I guess the potatoes are cooked now," said the monkey after a while,
and he took out on a sharp-pointed stick a big potato and broke it
open. "Yes, it's done," he went on, as he saw how mealy and
flaky-white the potato was, even if the outside was burned black. Then
he and Uncle Wiggily took out some more of the potatoes, and when they
were cool the two friends put salt on them, and ate them all up. Then
the monkey played ball with his cocoanut again.

And, all of a sudden, as he threw the cocoanut quite high up in the
air, it came down in the middle of a prickly briar bush. Then, all at
once, there was a terrible roaring sound and a savage voice cried out
from the middle of the bushes:

"Hi, there! Who is throwing stones at me?"

Then, before Uncle Wiggily or the red monkey could move, out sprang
the skillery-scalery alligator with his double-jointed tail. Right at
the red monkey and poor Uncle Wiggily he rushed, and he cried:

"Who threw that stone?"

"Please, Mr. Alligator," said the monkey, "it wasn't a stone. It was
my cocoanut, and I didn't mean to hurt you."

"A cocoanut, eh?" roared the alligator. "So much the worse for you!
I'm going to eat you both. Here I come! Get ready!"

And with that he opened his mouth as wide as a big paper bag, and
fairly jumped for the red monkey.

"Oh, I'm gone, sure, this time!" cried the monkey, sadly-like.

"No, you're not!" shouted brave Uncle Wiggily. "I'll save you!" And
what do you s'pose that rabbit gentleman did? Why, he just put on a
pair of gloves, as quickly as a cat can wash her face on a rainy day,
and he reached in the hot ashes, and he pulled out three hot, roast
potatoes. Then, taking careful aim, he threw one hot potato right into
the alligator's open mouth, which was as wide as two paper bags now,
ready to eat the red monkey.

"Oh, wow!" cried the alligator, as he felt the hot potato slipping
down his throat like a roast marshmallow candy.

"Wait, I'm not done yet," shouted the rabbit, and he threw hot potato
number two down the alligator's throat.

"Wow! Wow!" cried the skillery-scalery creature as he felt the
blistering heat on his forty-'leven sharp teeth.

"Wait! I have something more for you!" exclaimed Uncle Wiggily, and
then with slow and careful aim, he threw hot roast potato number three
down the alligator's throat.

"Wow! Wow! Wow!" yelled the skillery-scalery creature, and then,
fairly boiling inside, he turned a big backward somersault, standing
up on the end of his double-jointed tail, and he ran off to find some
iced water with which to cool himself.

"Ha! That's the time you saved my life with the roast potatoes. They
were just fine!" cried the red monkey. Then he and Uncle Wiggily
traveled on, and the alligator didn't bother them any more that day,
being so busy drinking iced water.

But they had another adventure soon, and I'll tell it to you a little
later, when the story will be about Uncle Wiggily and Buddy Pigg--that
is if the goldfish doesn't get caught in the mosquito net and tear a
hole in it for the June bugs to come in and read the fly-paper.




Uncle Wiggily and the red monkey were going slowly along through the
woods. It was the day after the alligator had started to eat up the
little red monkey, but he had to stop when the old gentleman rabbit
threw hot roast potatoes down his skillery-scalery throat.

"Do you think you will find your fortune to-day?" asked the monkey, as
he tossed up a stone and caught it as it came down. You see he had
lost the cocoanut he used to have that time when it hit the alligator.

"Well, I can't say for sure," replied Uncle Wiggily. "I hope I may
find some gold or diamonds, so I can get rich and go back home. But
you can never tell what is going to happen in this world, not even
whether you are going to have an ice-cream cone or not; no, indeed,
and a stick of peppermint candy besides."

"I tell you what it is," said the red monkey, slow and
thoughtful-like, as he scratched his stubby black nose with a piece of
straw. "I don't believe you have looked in the right places for your
fortune, Uncle Wiggily."

"Why, nonsensicalness!" exclaimed the old gentleman rabbit. "I look in
every place I can think of. I look on the ground, and under stones,
and behind stumps, and down holes, and alongside of rail fences. But I
haven't found any gold or diamonds yet."

"Exactly," spoke the red monkey. "But did you ever look up a tree for
them?"

"Once I did," said the rabbit. "I threw up a stone with some molasses
and a string to it to get some gold. But the stone went in an owl's
hole, I think. That's all the luck I ever had."

"Then I'm going to look up some more trees for you," went on the
monkey. "I am a good climber, and perhaps I may have better luck. Hop
along lively now and maybe we will find your fortune before
breakfast."

So the two friends went along together, and every once in a while the
monkey would climb a tree. The first one he scrambled up was a maple
tree, and he hoped he might find some maple sugar hanging on the
branches, but it wasn't time for maple sugar. Anyhow, you remember
that this kind of sugar comes from the inside of a tree and not the
outside. They take the tree juice and boil it in the spring of the
year, you know, and that makes maple sugar.

The next tree the monkey went up was a hickory nut tree, and there
were some nuts on it, but they weren't ripe yet, and when he ate one
it was so bitter that he had to make a funny face. And Uncle Wiggily,
who was on the ground, happened to see the monkey's funny face, and
the old gentleman rabbit laughed so hard that he dropped his valise.

The valise came open and out fell a piece of cherry pie, and when the
monkey saw this he laughed. He laughed so hard that he shook the tree,
and a whole lot of green hickory nuts fell down, and two of them
struck Uncle Wiggily on the end of his twinkling nose, making him
sneeze forty-'leven times.

Then the monkey was sorry, and he scrambled to the ground without
having found any gold or diamond fortunes. He said he was sorry that
Uncle Wiggily was hurt.

"Pray do not mention it," spoke the rabbit, politely. "It was partly
my fault. Let us hurry on."

"No, let's eat breakfast first," suggested the monkey; so they sat
down and ate the cherry pie, after brushing off the dirt, and really
it wasn't damaged hardly any.

Well, then they traveled on again, and the next tree which the monkey
climbed was a pine tree, and on it were long pine cones, something
like brown bananas, but not very good to eat. The monkey began picking
them, and Uncle Wiggily called out:

"Have you found any fortune for me?"

"No," said the red monkey, sadly, "I haven't, but we can have a game
of baseball with these cones when I come down. Look out, I'm going to
toss some to you."

Uncle Wiggily got safely out of the way behind a big stone, and the
red monkey tossed down a number of the long, brown pine cones. And
just as the first of them were nearing the ground a most surprising
thing happened. Out from the woods came a big black bear, and he
walked toward the tree in which the monkey was, just in time to be hit
on the end of his soft and tender nose by the sharp pine cones which
the monkey threw.

"Wow!" cried the bear. "Who did that?"

Well, of course, Uncle Wiggily wasn't going to say that he had done
it, for he hadn't, so the rabbit just crouched down behind the rock,
and waited to see what would happen.

And the monkey hadn't seen the bear, so he threw down some more pine
cones, and land sakes flopsy dub and a potato pancake! one of the
cones hit the bear on his soft nose again!

"Wow! Wow!" cried the bear once more. "Who did that?"

And this time he happened to look up, and there he saw the poor red
monkey up in the pine tree.

"Ah, ha! It's you, is it?" growled the bear. "Now, just for that I'm
going to climb up there and eat you."

"Oh, please don't!" begged the monkey. "It was all a mistake. I didn't
mean to do it!"

"Well, there won't be any mistake about this!" growled the bear. "Here
I come!" And up he climbed, for bears can climb a tree better than can
a cat.

Well, you can just imagine how scared that monkey was. He was so
frightened that he didn't think to run to the top of the pine tree,
and jump into another, so he could get away. Instead he just sat there
on a limb, shivering. And Uncle Wiggily was also frightened as he hid
behind the stone.

"The poor monkey will be eaten up," thought the rabbit, "and it will
be my fault, because he was looking for my fortune. Oh! what can I
do?"

And just then Uncle Wiggily heard a rustling in the leaves at his
feet. He jumped back, thinking it might be a little baby bear, but,
instead out pounced a tiny brown and white chap without any tail.

"Why, Buddy Pigg!" exclaimed the rabbit. "How does it happen that you
are here?"

"I'm just walking about for exercise," said the guinea-pig boy, for he
it was. "But what is the trouble, Uncle Wiggily?"

"The bear is going to eat up the red monkey," said the old gentleman
rabbit, sadly. "Look!"

Buddy Pigg looked, and by this time the bear had almost climbed up to
where the monkey was sitting and shivering.

"Oh, I must stop that!" exclaimed Buddy. "Wait a minute and watch. You
know how I can whistle, don't you? so listen."

Now, you know all guinea pigs can make a funny, squeaking noise just
like some one whistling, and that's exactly what Buddy did. He
whistled loudly and he whistled softly through his teeth. Then he
whistled double and single and next he whistled like a man calling to
his dog.

And that's exactly what the bear thought it was--a man whistling for
the dogs to come and bite the bear. Louder whistled Buddy through his
teeth, hiding down behind the rock with Uncle Wiggily, and the bear
was very much frightened.

"I guess the dogs are coming for me!" the bear exclaimed, and he
stopped climbing up the tree. Then he called to the monkey: "I'll get
you some other time." Then the bear slid down the tree and ran off in
the woods, while Buddy whistled louder than ever. And then the monkey
came safely down, and he wasn't eaten by the bear, after all, and
that's all to this story, if you please.

The next one will be about Uncle Wiggily and Munchie Trot, the pony
boy--that is if the automobile horn doesn't stick in the lace curtains
and scare the fish cakes so that they bite the mashed potatoes.




"Weren't you frightened when you were up in the tree and the bear was
coming after you?" asked Buddy Pigg of the red monkey, as he and Uncle
Wiggily were walking along, after the adventure that I told you about
last night.

"Frightened? I should say I was!" exclaimed the monkey. "I thought I'd
never get down again to help look for Uncle Wiggily's fortune. I never
can thank you enough for whistling and scaring that savage bear. How
do you do it?"

"Oh, it is very simple," said the guinea pig boy, as he modestly
looked down at the ground. "It's this way."

Then he whistled through his teeth again, slowly and faster, just to
show how it was done.

"I wish I could learn how to do that," said the monkey. "If I ever get
caught up a tree again by a bear I could whistle for myself, and make
believe some hunter's dogs were coming to help me."

"I'll show you," said Buddy Pigg, and he told the monkey how to put
his tongue against his teeth and how to blow through his lips. Well,
the red monkey tried it, and he tried again, but he couldn't seem to
whistle.

"Perhaps if I stand on my head I could do better," he said, and in a
moment there he was standing on his head and trying to whistle upside
down. But still he couldn't do it.

"Try hanging by your tail," suggested Buddy Pigg, and the little red
chap did so, but still it was of no use. He hung there by his tail so
long that Uncle Wiggily was afraid the monkey's head might fall off,
so he made him get down.

Then the red chap tried again and again, but he couldn't whistle a
bit, and at last the old gentleman rabbit said:

"I believe I know what the trouble is."

"What?" asked Buddy.

"Why, you see you have no tail, Buddy, and you are a good whistler,"
went on the rabbit, for you know it's really so--guinea pigs have no
tails--though I'm not allowed to tell you the reason just yet.

"You have no tail, and you are a good whistler," said the rabbit
again, "but the monkey has a long tail, and he can't seem to whistle a
bit. The tail must make all the difference. Just cut off your tail,
red monkey, and you'll whistle."

"Yes, I guess I would!" exclaimed the monkey, surprised-like. "I'd cry
too, and feel very badly. No, if I have to lose my tail to whistle
I'll never do it. I know what I can do instead."

"What?" asked Buddy Pigg.

"I can hire a green parrot to whistle for me," said the monkey.
"Parrots can whistle for real or make-believe dogs as good as a man
can. I'll take a parrot with me, and he'll scare the bears."

"Very good," said Uncle Wiggily, "for I would not like to see you lose
your tail."

So, the three friends traveled on for some distance until it was time
for Buddy Pigg to go home. And with him Uncle Wiggily sent his love to
all his friends and to Sammie and Susie Littletail also.

"Well, we don't seem to be finding your fortune very fast," spoke the
red monkey after they had climbed up one hill, and part of another
one, and had looked under a lot of stones and behind several stumps.

"No, I guess we won't find it to-day," said the rabbit. It was now
getting on toward afternoon, and Uncle Wiggily began thinking of where
he would spend the night.

"I know what to do," said the red monkey. "I'll make a little house
here in the woods, and we'll stay in that. We'll build a fire, and
make believe we are camping out. And, while I am making the house out
of sticks and leaves, you can walk around and look for your fortune."

"Very good," said the old gentleman rabbit, and so he started off,
leaving the monkey to make the house in the woods. Uncle Wiggily
walked on and on, but he didn't find his fortune, and it was getting
rather late. He was just about to start back to where he had left the
red monkey, when all of a sudden he heard a crying in the woods.

"Ha! I know what that is!" exclaimed the rabbit. "That is a baby fox,
and near him is the old papa fox, who wants to catch and eat me. I'll
not go near him, but I'll hurry home."

So he started toward the monkey's house, but the crying became louder,
and the rabbit thought that perhaps, after all, it might not be a baby
fox. And then, before he could twinkle his nose more than seven times,
there was a rustling in the bushes, and out came a little boy
squirrel. One of his legs was broken, and he was limping along on a
piece of wood for a crutch.

"Oh, you poor little fellow!" cried the rabbit. "You look just like
Billie or Johnny Bushytail after a football game. What has happened?"

"Oh, a boy threw a stone at me, and hurt me!" answered the little
squirrel. "I'm lost and I can't walk home, and I don't know what to
do."

"I'll help you," spoke Uncle Wiggily, kindly, but when he tried to, he
found that his own rheumatism was so bad that he could hardly move.
And the little boy squirrel was so stiff that he could barely walk,
and there they were, both in the woods, with night coming on, and no
way to get home.

"Oh, what shall we do?" cried Uncle Wiggily, and he wished the monkey
would come along. And just then, if you will believe me, there was
another rustling in the bushes, and out galloped Munchie Trot, the
strong pony boy.

"Ha! What is the trouble here?" he asked, switching his tail, just
like a wooden horse on the merry-go-round.

"Oh, we are both so lame that we can't walk," said Uncle Wiggily, "and
we are a long way from the monkey's house. What shall we do?"

"Yes!" cried the little lame squirrel boy, "Boo-hoo! Hoo-boo what
shall we do?"

"Don't say another word!" cried Munchie. "I'll take care of you. Just
get on my back and I'll soon take you to the monkey's house in the
woods." Then the pony boy knelt down so that Uncle Wiggily and the
squirrel could get up on his back.

And when they got there and the cupboard was bare--oh, please excuse
me, that belongs in another story--when they got up on Munchie's back
and were holding tightly to the saddle, off the pony boy started
through the woods, galloping to the monkey's house.

Then a whole lot of mosquitoes swarmed out of the bushes and tried to
bite Uncle Wiggily and the squirrel, but Munchie switched his tail at
the stinging insects, and away they scattered.

Then a big owl flew down out of a tree and tried to grab the squirrel,
but the pony trotted so fast that the owl was left behind. And next a
wolf tried to pull the rabbit off the horse, but Munchie tickled the
savage creature in the ribs with his hoof, and the wolf ran away,
sneezing.

Then the pony came safely to the house that the monkey had built in
the woods, and he and Uncle Wiggily and the squirrel stayed there in
peace and quietness all night, and they put some salve and a bandage
on the squirrel's hurt leg to make it well.

And the next day there was another adventure. I'll tell you what it
was on the next page, when the story will be about Uncle Wiggily and
the green parrot--that is, if the piano key doesn't unlock the front
door and let in a red, white and blue mosquito to bite the baby's
toes.




Uncle Wiggily was the first one to awaken in the little house that the
monkey had built in the woods. It was the morning after the day when
Munchie Trot had brought the rabbit and the little squirrel boy home
on his back.

"Well, my rheumatism is somewhat better to-day," said the old
gentleman rabbit to himself as he stretched out first one leg and then
the other to see if they hurt him. He didn't have much pain, so he
started to make the fire to boil the coffee.

And some of the wood which he put on the fire was wet so that it
smoked. And the smoke got up the monkey's nose, and made him sneeze,
so that he was awakened, and he helped to get the breakfast in a
hurry.

Then, in turn, Munchie Trot woke up, and next the squirrel boy. His
leg hurt him very much, but Uncle Wiggily and the monkey bound it up
with some splints, and some soft bark, tying it with ribbon grass, and
then they all had breakfast, and felt better.

"But how am I to get home?" asked the little squirrel boy. "My mamma
and papa will worry about me, I know."

"Oh, as to that," said Munchie Trot, switching his long tail to keep
the flies off the breakfast table, "I will take you home on my back."

"Very good," said Uncle Wiggily, "and I will go a little way with you,
and come back here. Perhaps I may find part of my fortune in that
way."

"That's nice," spoke the red monkey, "and I'll stay here and get
dinner. And, say, Uncle Wiggily, if you happen to see a green parrot
just bring him along to whistle for me."

"I will," promised the old gentleman rabbit. Then he helped the little
lame squirrel boy up on the pony's back, and off Munchie started with
Uncle Wiggily hopping alongside. The rabbit looked for his fortune,
but he couldn't find it, and pretty soon he had come as far as he
thought he ought to go, so he said he would start back.

"Good-by," called the lame squirrel boy, "and thank you so much for
being kind to me. Perhaps you may find your fortune on your way back."

"Or, if you don't find that," spoke Munchie, as he waved good-by with
his long tail, "perhaps you will find the green parrot."

Then Uncle Wiggily hopped back toward where he had left the monkey
getting dinner at the little house in the woods. And, just as the old
gentleman rabbit was passing under a butternut tree, he heard a voice
singing this little song:

    "Oh, I'm a jolly, jolly sailor lad,
     I sail the ocean blue.
     And if you're glad, and not very bad,
     I'd like to sail with you.
     Oh, it's yo-ho-ho when the wind does blow,
     And the waves run mountains high.
     We will skip along and sing a song
     Beneath the bright blue sky.

    "Oh, once I lived in a big wire cage,
     In a house upon a hill.
     For birds like me were the style you see,
     Though I sometimes felt quite ill.
     I had seeds to eat, in a seed dish neat,
     But they didn't agree with me,
     So I flew away on a rainy day,
     To live in a greenwood tree."

"My, that's rather strange," said Uncle Wiggily. "I don't see how a
sailor lad could live in a cage, nor yet perch in a tree. I must look
into this. Perhaps it may be the beginning of my fortune."

So he crept along very softly, and there, perched on the limb of a
tree, was a nice green parrot, scratching his crooked beak with his
left foot.

"Ha! How do you do? How are the oysters? Have you been in swimming?
Pass the crackers, please. Right this way for your hot ice-cream
cones!" quickly cried the green parrot in a shrill voice.

"Well of all things!" exclaimed the rabbit. "I am pretty well, thank
you, but I don't know anything about oysters, and I haven't been in
swimming. I don't see any crackers to pass, and, as for hot ice-cream
cones, I never heard of them."

"Ha! Ha!" laughed the parrot. "Never mind me. That was only my joking
way. But I'm glad to see you anyhow. I was only fooling about hot
ice-cream cones. Listen and I'll whistle a song for you," and then and
there, without even wiggling his tail once, he whistled a song called:
"Never Drop a Penny Down a Crack in the Boardwalk."

"How do you like that?" asked the parrot as he stood on one leg and
stretched out his wings.

"It was very fine," said the rabbit. "And I believe you are just what
I am looking for. Will you kindly come and whistle for the monkey, so
the bears won't catch him?"

"I certainly will," spoke the parrot, politely. "Show me the way. I am
very fond of monkeys. I used to know one who could play five hand
organs at once--one with his tail."

"This is a red monkey, and he is a friend of the hand organ one," said
Uncle Wiggily, as he hopped on ahead to show the green parrot the way.

Well, pretty soon, not so very long, they came near to the place where
the little house was. They heard a curious hissing noise, like a steam
radiator sissing in cold weather.

"My! What's that? A snake?" asked the parrot, in alarm. Uncle Wiggily
looked through the bushes. Then he laughed.

"It is only the monkey trying to whistle," said the rabbit, "but he
can't do it."

"Poor fellow!" spoke the green parrot kindly. "I'll whistle for him,"
and he did so. At first the monkey was frightened, thinking some real
dogs were coming at the sound of the whistle, but then Uncle Wiggily
and the parrot popped out of the bushes, laughing, and they told the
monkey who they were, the rabbit explaining that the parrot had come
to whistle and scare the bears away.

"It's very kind of you," said the red monkey, "and perhaps in time I
may learn to whistle a little myself. But come now and have dinner."

So the monkey and the parrot and Uncle Wiggily ate their lunch and in
the afternoon they all looked for the old gentleman's fortune, but
they couldn't find it. And that night something very strange happened
as they were all sleeping in the little house which the monkey had
built in the woods.

It was all dark and quiet when, all of a sudden, the fuzzy fox sneaked
up. He broke open the front window, and he was just crawling in
through the hole to eat up the rabbit when the parrot was quickly
awakened by feeling the wind blowing on him through the broken glass.
Then he saw the burglar fox, and he whistled for the make-believe dogs
and cried out:

"Fire! Thieves! Police! Bean-soup! Trolley Cars! Ice-cream cones!
Robbers! Get out of here! Take your tail with you! Police! Mud pies!
Cocoanut pudding! Merry-go-rounds! Look out! Fire! Fish hooks!
Automobiles! Bang-bang! Whoop-de-doodle-do!"

Well, if you'll believe me, that fuzzy fox was never so frightened in
all his life before. He thought a whole lot of soldiers, and guns, and
dogs, and police were after him, and he jumped out of the window and
ran off as fast as his legs would take him. Then Uncle Wiggily and the
green parrot and the red monkey went to sleep again, and there's no
more to this story, as you can see for yourself.

But in case the umbrella doesn't turn outside in, and scare the spoon
holder off the table and make the napkins jump over the sugar bowl,
the next story will be about Uncle Wiggily and the hippity-hop toad.




"Dear me!" exclaimed Uncle Wiggily as he got out of bed the morning
after the green parrot had scared away the fuzzy fox, "I do seem to be
having the most surprising adventures, but I can't find my fortune.
Anyhow, I'm glad we had the parrot with us last night; aren't you, red
monkey?"

"Indeed I am," declared the little chap with the long tail. "And
perhaps he will bring us good luck, and you may come across your
fortune at any moment. Why don't you go look for it while I take my
whistling lesson?"

"Are you going to try again to whistle?" asked the rabbit.

"Indeed I am," replied the monkey. "I'm not going to give up just
because I can't do a thing the first time or the forty-'leventh time.
If it's possible for me to whistle I'm going to learn."

"Bravo!" cried the parrot, fluttering his green wings. "That's the way
to talk. Well, now we'll have breakfast, and after that I'll give you
a whistling lesson, but first I must sing a song." So he sang this
one:

    "Once there was a dollie,
        Who could shut her eyes,
    They were blue like buttercups,
        Under summer skies.
    She had hair like roses,
        And her teeth were red,
    Sometimes when she walked along
       She stood on her head.

    "Inside her was sawdust,
        Fine as fine could be,
    Made from sawing little boards
        That grew in a tree.
    She could walk on tiptoes,
        Also skip a rope,
    Every Sunday morning she
        Washed her face with soap."

"My! That was a funny doll, with red teeth and hair like roses," said
the monkey. "I wonder if she was any relation to me?"

"And who ever heard of blue buttercups?" asked the rabbit. "Buttercups
are yellow! Every one knows that."

"I know," said the parrot. "You see there really wasn't ever any such
dollie--I just made up that song as I went along. But now for
breakfast. Yo, ho! Ho, yo!"

Well, it was a nice breakfast they all had together in the little
house the monkey had built, and when it was over the parrot started on
the whistling lesson. Uncle Wiggily watched the monkey for a time, and
saw the long-tailed chap turn a double back somersault when he found
he couldn't whistle any other way. But even that didn't seem to do any
good.

"Never mind," said the parrot, kindly; "you may learn yet. Never give
up!"

"I'll not," said the monkey.

"Well, I think I will go off and see if I can find my fortune," said
Uncle Wiggily. "I'll come back to dinner," and off he hopped, looking
on all sides for gold or diamonds so that he could get rich and go
back home to live in peace and comfort.

Well, the old gentleman rabbit hadn't gone on very far before he came
to a place where there was a hole in the ground, and in front of it
was a sign, which read:

                        "HOP DOWN HERE AND GET
                                RICH."

"Ah, ha!" exclaimed the rabbit. "Indeed, I'll not do that. There must
be a bad fox or a bear down there. I'll keep away." So he hopped on
very quickly, and a voice called out after him:

"Aren't you coming down and get rich?"

"No, I'm not!" answered the rabbit, as he looked back and saw a savage
mud turtle sticking his long neck and snaky head out of the hole. Then
the rabbit kept on, and he went so fast that the turtle couldn't catch
up to him.

Well, the next place he came to was a little pond of water, and in
front of this was a piece of paper on which was written:

                     "JUMP IN HERE AND GET RICH."

"Ah, ha! No, indeed!" exclaimed Uncle Wiggily, foxy-like. "They can't
catch me that way! There is probably an alligator in that pond."

So away he ran as fast as he could go, and a voice cried after him:

"Aren't you coming in?" And, looking back, he saw a big, savage water
rat.

"No, indeed; I'm not coming in," said the old gentleman rabbit, and he
hurried on, while the water rat gnashed his sharp teeth, because he
was so disappointed at not catching the rabbit.

Well, the next place Uncle Wiggily came to was a big, bright, tin can
standing beside the path that led through the woods.

"Ha! I wonder what that can be?" thought the rabbit. "Perhaps there is
a sign on it telling me to climb in and get rich." So he looked all
around the tin can, but there was no sign. "That must be a safe
place," thought the rabbit. "It may be full of gold or diamonds. I'm
going to have a look in."

He tried to climb up the sides of the can, but they were too smooth,
so he got some long sticks and some short ones, and, by tying them
together with ribbon grass, Uncle Wiggily made a little ladder. Then,
by standing this up against the tin can, he could climb up and look
in.

When he first looked over the top of the can he couldn't see anything.
Then he leaned away far over, and the first thing he knew, in he had
fallen ker-splash! and the can was full of molasses--yes, there poor
Uncle Wiggily was in a can of molasses and he was so stuck up that he
didn't know what to do.

He tried to swim out, but the molasses was too thick. And he kept
sinking deeper and deeper.

"Oh, dear! What shall I do?" he cried. "I can never get out!"

And then, all of a sudden, a voice outside the can called:

"Who are you, and what is the trouble?"

"Oh, please help me," begged the rabbit.

"I will," said the voice again. "I am the hippity-hop toad, and I am
going to take that can up on my back, and hippity-hop up and down with
it until I turn all the molasses into molasses candy, and then you can
climb out on that. Hold fast, please."

Well, Uncle Wiggily held fast, and the first thing he knew the can in
which he was a prisoner gave a lurch and a swaying motion, and then it
almost turned upside down, and then he knew it must be up on the back
of the hippity-hop toad.

Then, my goodness! I wish you could have seen that toad hop. Up and
down he went like the dasher in a churn, or like a steam pump. Up and
down! Up and down, faster and faster! The molasses splashed all over
and some got up Uncle Wiggily's nose and some in his eyes, and it was
all he could do to hold on to the sides of the can. But somehow he
managed it.

But pretty soon the molasses got thicker and thicker, and then it
began to get harder and harder, and pretty soon it was turned into
sticks of molasses candy. Then Uncle Wiggily took these candy sticks
and made a ladder of them, and when the hippity-hop toad set down the
can off his back the rabbit climbed up the inside of it on his candy
ladder, went down his wooden ladder outside the can and he was safe.

Of course he had lots of spots of molasses on him, but the toad showed
him where there was a brook of water in which he washed himself. Then
he thanked the hippity-hop toad and went back to the monkey house,
though still without his fortune.

Now in the next story, in case the mucilage bottle doesn't upset on
the doormat and make the letterman stick fast to it so he can't
whistle, I'll tell you about Uncle Wiggily and the angle worms.




"Well, where in the world have you been?" asked the red monkey of
Uncle Wiggily, as the old gentleman rabbit hopped along after he had
gotten out of the molasses can.

"Oh, I had an adventure," replied the rabbit, and he told how the
hippity-hop toad had saved him from the sticky stuff. "But can you
whistle yet, red monkey?" asked Uncle Wiggily.

"No, he doesn't seem to be able to do it," spoke the green parrot, in
a sort of sad and hopeless tone. "Every time he tries to whistle he
puckers his face up in such a funny way that I have to laugh, and when
I laugh I can't whistle. Can't you keep your face straight, so I won't
have to giggle?" asked the green bird, solemn-like.

Illustration: Uncle Wiggily and the Alligator

"I can't seem to," replied the monkey, and he made another effort to
whistle, but he puckered up such a funny face, and his tail got all
tied up in a hard knot, and he looked so queer that even Uncle Wiggily
had to laugh.

"You see how it is," said the parrot. "I can't give whistling lessons
and laugh at the same time," and then he had to laugh "Ha! Ha!" and
"Ho! Ho!" because you see the monkey made another queer face trying to
get the knots out of his tail.

"I think I have a plan," said Uncle Wiggily after a bit.

"What is it?" asked the monkey.

"You must get behind a tree, red monkey," said the rabbit. "Then the
parrot can tell you how to whistle, and give you a lesson without
seeing the funny faces you make. Then he can whistle, to show you how,
and he won't have to laugh."

"The very thing!" cried the parrot. So they tried that way, and they
got along quite nicely. Well, by that time it was the dinner hour,
and, after the meal, Uncle Wiggily said he would go out again to look
for his fortune, and would come back to supper.

"But don't fall into any more molasses cans," cautioned the monkey,
and the rabbit gentleman said he would not. Away Uncle Wiggily hopped
over the hills, across the fields and through the woods. Pretty soon
he came to a pile of nice brown dirt.

"Ha, some one has been digging here," thought the rabbit. "Perhaps
some one else is also looking for a fortune of gold or diamonds. If
that is so I had better dig here, too."

So, with his sharp paws, the rabbit began to dig in the dirt near the
pile of earth. Faster and faster he dug until, all of a sudden, he saw
something moving in the hole he had made.

"Ha! I wonder if there is moving-gold here?" he thought.

But when he looked again he saw that it was only a little angleworm,
or earth worm, as some people call them, who was crawling out to sun
himself.

"Oh, I hope I haven't hurt you!" exclaimed Uncle Wiggily, kindly, as
he lifted up the worm gently in his paws.

"Not a bit of it," answered the worm, twisting about to see if his
tail was all there. "But I'm glad you're not a fisherman, Mr. Rabbit."

"Why so?" asked Uncle Wiggily, as he shook some dirt out of his left
ear.

"Because if you were you might stick me on a sharp hook and toss me
into the water for the fish to eat. Nothing is worse than to have a
hook stuck into you," said the worm, moving around until he was in two
knots. Then he untied himself again.

"I should think hooks might be unpleasant," spoke the rabbit. "But I
won't hurt you, and here is a bit of cherry pie for you."

"Thank you, most kindly," said the angle worm, as he sat up on the end
of his tail and ate the cherry pie, juice and all. "But why are you
digging in the earth, Uncle Wiggily?"

"To find my fortune," answered the rabbit, and he told how long he had
been looking for gold or diamonds and how he hadn't found any yet. "Is
there any gold down under the ground where you live?" asked the
rabbit, sad-like.

"Not a bit, I'm sorry to say," answered the worm. "I live down there
with numbers of my friends, but there is no gold. You had better dig
somewhere else. But you have been very kind to me, and if ever I can
do you a favor I will."

"Thank you," said Uncle Wiggily, so he hopped out of the hole he had
made, and, after saying good-bye to the worm, he traveled on to find
another place where he might dig for his fortune.

He came to a place in the woods, where the ground was nice and soft,
and there he started to make another hole. Well, he hadn't gone down
very far before, all of a sudden, he heard a growling voice behind him
calling out:

"Here! Who said you could dig in my land?"

"Oh, I beg your pardon. Is this your land?" asked the rabbit, and he
looked up to see the skillery-scalery alligator glaring down at him.

"Yes, this is my land, and these are my woods, and because you were so
bold as to dig here I'm going to eat you up!" shouted the 'gator,
lashing his double-jointed tail around in the dried leaves. "Here I
come!" he cried.

Then he made a dive, with his big, wide-open jaws, down into the hole
Uncle Wiggily had dug, but the rabbit didn't wait for him. Out he
jumped, and away he hopped, and the 'gator crawled after him. Faster
and faster ran the rabbit, and faster and faster came the alligator.

"Oh, I know he'll catch me!" thought poor Uncle Wiggily. "Oh, help!
Will no one help me?" he cried.

"Yes, we'll help you!" called a little voice on the ground, and,
looking down the rabbit saw the angle worm. And, crawling along with
him were about a million other worms, some larger and some smaller
than he. "Run along as fast as you can," said the first angle worm,
"and we'll twine ourselves in knots around the alligator's legs so
that he can't chase you any more. Run! Run!"

Well, you may be sure Uncle Wiggily ran as hard as he could.

"I'll get you!" cried the alligator, and he made a jump after the
rabbit, but it was the last jump the skillery-scalery creature made
that day. For the next instant those million angle worms just tied
themselves in hard knots, and sailor knots, and bow knots, and double
knots, and true lovers' knots and all sorts of knots around the tail
and legs of the alligator, and he couldn't move another inch.

"Now's your chance! Hop away, Uncle Wiggily!" cried the first worm.
"We'll hold the alligator here because you were so kind to me."

And the rabbit hopped safely away, and the ugly 'gator couldn't even
wiggle his double-jointed tail. Then, when the rabbit was safe at the
monkey's house, all the angle worms untied their knots off the
alligator, and they scurried down into the ground before he could bite
them. So that's how it all happened, just as true as I'm telling you.
And that 'gator was so angry that he almost bit a piece out of his own
tail. Then he went off in the woods and wasn't seen again for some
time.

But this wasn't the last of Uncle Wiggily's adventures; no, indeed. In
case the fish-hook doesn't catch the baseball and make the lamp
chimney all smoky, I'll tell you next about Uncle Wiggily and the
black beetle.




One beautiful sunshiny day, when the wind was blowing through the
tree-tops, making music like a church organ many miles away, Uncle
Wiggily awakened in the little house which the red monkey had built
for him in the deep woods.

"Well, I'm going to make another search for my fortune this morning,"
he said as he wiggled his whiskers to get the dried leaves out of
them, for he had slept on a bed of leaves, you know.

"And I'll go with you," said the red monkey; "Because the last two or
three times you went off by yourself you got into trouble."

"Trouble? I should say I did!" exclaimed the old gentleman rabbit.

"There was the time when you fell into the can of molasses, and the
hippity-hop toad had to jump up and down with it on his back, until it
was made into sticks of candy," said the red monkey.

"True enough," spoke Uncle Wiggily.

"And then there was the time when the skillery-scalery alligator
chased you," went on the red monkey, "and the angle worms tied
themselves into knots about his legs to stop him. Do you remember
that?"

"Indeed I do," said the old gentleman rabbit. "And I will be very glad
to have you come along with me and help me. We will start right after
breakfast."

So the two friends built a little camp-fire in front of the wooden
house in the woods and they cooked some oatmeal and some carrots and
turnips, and Uncle Wiggily made a cherry pie with plenty of red juice
in it. And the monkey found a bag of peanuts under a chestnut tree and
he roasted them for his breakfast. Then they started off.

On and on they went through the woods, over the hills, up one side and
down the other, around the corner, where a big gray rock rested on
some green moss, and then, all of a sudden, there was a queer noise up
in the air. It was like wings fluttering and a voice calling. And the
voice said:

"Is the red monkey down there?"

"Oh, my! I wonder who can want you?" said Uncle Wiggily.

"Maybe it's the bear who once climbed up a tree after me," cried the
red monkey. "I'm going to hide." So he crawled under a big, broad
leaf. Then once more the voice called:

"I want the red monkey!"

"Oh, please Uncle Wiggily, don't let him get me!" begged the shivering
and shaking monkey. "Throw a stone at that bear, will you?"

"Ha! Hum!" exclaimed the old gentleman rabbit. "I don't very well see
how it can be a bear. Bears don't fly in the air, for they have no
wings. I'll take a look."

So he looked up in the air, and there, instead of a bear flying
overhead, it was only Dickie Chip-Chip, the little sparrow boy.

"Well, bless me!" cried Uncle Wiggily. "What are you doing up there,
Dickie?"

"Oh, I'm making believe I'm a messenger boy," said the sparrow. "I
have a telegram for the red monkey."

"Oh, ho! So that's why you wanted me, is it?" asked the long-tailed
chap, as he crawled out from under the leaf. "What is the message
about, if you please?"

"Here it is," spoke Dickie, and then from under his wing he took a
piece of white cocoanut with writing on it. And no sooner had the red
monkey read it than he began to cry.

"What's the matter?" asked Uncle Wiggily.

"Oh, dear!" sobbed the red monkey, "my little brother who works on a
hand organ nearly had his tail cut off by getting it twisted around
the handle. He is very sick, and I must go home right away. Oh, how
sorry I am!" and then the red monkey ate up the piece of cocoanut that
had the message written on it.

"You had better go home at once," said Uncle Wiggily.

"But I don't like to leave you," said the red monkey.

"Oh, I will get along all right!" spoke the brave old rabbit
gentleman. "Go ahead, and when your brother is well, come back."

"I will," promised the red monkey, as he started for home.

"And I'll fly on ahead to tell them he is coming," said Dickie
Chip-Chip. So they both called good-by to Uncle Wiggily, and hurried
away through the woods, while the rabbit gentleman kept on in search
of his fortune. And now for the black beetle.

Uncle Wiggily was walking along under a green tree, looking for some
gold or diamonds when, all of a sudden something jumped out of the
bushes and grabbed his crutch away from him. Then Uncle Wiggily saw
that it was a wolf, and the wolf sprang down into a big hole in the
ground, taking the crutch with him.

"Now," called the wolf, showing his ugly teeth, "if you want your
crutch, Mr. Rabbit, you'll have to come down this hole after it. Come
on down."

But Uncle Wiggily knew better than that, for just as surely as he
jumped down into that hole the wolf would have eaten him all up. And
the rabbit didn't know what to do, for he couldn't walk without his
crutch on account of being lame with the rheumatism.

"Oh, this is terrible!" cried the rabbit. "Whatever shall I do? I
can't stay in these woods forever."

And just then there was a rustling in the leaves, and out walked a big
black, pinching beetle. In front of his head he had two things just
like fire tongs, or a crab's claws, with which to pinch.

"What is the trouble?" asked the black beetle politely.

"The wolf, down the hole, has my crutch, and he won't give it to me,"
said the rabbit.

"Ha! we will very soon fix that," spoke the beetle. "Just tie a string
around me, Uncle Wiggily, and lower me down into the hole. Then I'll
pick up the crutch in my strong pincers, and you can haul me up again
as I hold fast to it."

"But the wolf may get you," said the rabbit.

"I'll fix that wolf," replied the beetle, winking his two little eyes,
real jolly-like.

So Uncle Wiggily tied a string around the black insect, and lowered
him down into the hole. The wolf saw him coming and cried out:

"Oh! You can't get this crutch, for I'm sitting on it, and I'll bite
you."

"Just you watch," spoke the black beetle, winking one eye this time.
So he looked down, and, surely enough, the wolf was sitting on the
crutch. But the beetle knew a good trick. He swung himself around on
the end of the string, which the rabbit held, and, as he got near to
the wolf, the beetle suddenly pinched the savage creature on the tail.

"Oh, my! Ouch!" cried the wolf, and he jumped up in a hurry. And that
was just what the beetle wanted, for now he could reach the crutch as
the wolf was not sitting on it any more. In his strong pincers he took
hold of it.

"Pull me up!" called the beetle to the rabbit, and Uncle Wiggily did
so, crutch and all, by the string, and they left the wolf down in the
hole as angry as a mud pie. So that's how the beetle got back the
rabbit's crutch for him, and that's the end of this story.

But there'll be another one soon, about Uncle Wiggily and Kittie
Kat--that is if the puppy dog across the street doesn't chew a hole in
the milk bottle and scare the iceman all to pieces so that he goes
roller skating with the jumping rope.




"Well," said Uncle Wiggily, as he and the black beetle went along
through the woods, after the rabbit's crutch had been taken away from
the savage wolf, "don't you want to come along with me, Mr. Beetle,
and help me look for my fortune?"

"Indeed, I would like to very much," said the funny little insect,
"but the truth of the matter is that I have to go to work to-morrow,
and so I can't come."

"Work--what work do you do?" inquired Uncle Wiggily.

"Oh, I am going to punch holes in trolley car transfers with my strong
pincers," answered the beetle. "Now, I will have to bid you good-by,
but if ever any one takes your crutch down a hole again, send for me
and I'll get it back for you."

So the beetle said good-by to the old gentleman rabbit, and went his
way, and Uncle Wiggily, after looking at his crutch to be sure the
wolf had not bitten a piece out of it, went on looking for his
fortune.

"My! It's quite lonesome going by yourself," said the rabbit, as he
hopped along through the woods. "I miss the red monkey and the
grasshopper and the black beetle. But then they can't always be with
me, so I'll have to travel on alone."

On and on he went. Sometimes in the fields he stopped to hear the
birds sing, and he heard them talking among themselves about how they
must soon get ready to go down South, for cold weather was coming.
That made the old gentleman rabbit feel a little sad, and he wished
that he could soon go back home, where Sammie and Susie Littletail
were waiting for him.

"But I can't go until I find my fortune," he said. "I must look harder
than ever for it."

Then, sometimes, when he went through the woods, he heard the little
brooks whispering to the ferns, how that soon there would be ice and
snow all over, with boys and girls skating and sliding down hill.

"Burr-r-r-r-r-r! That makes me shiver!" exclaimed the rabbit. "I, too,
must get ready for winter. Oh, if I could only find that gold and
those diamonds I'd go right straight home, and never travel about any
more."

So he looked under stones and down in hollow stumps, but not a piece
of gold nor a sparkling diamond could he find. Then it began to get
late, and the sun was darkened behind the clouds.

"I wonder where I can stay to-night?" thought Uncle Wiggily. "I must
pick out a nice, big stump, fill it with leaves, and sleep in there."

Well, it didn't take him long to find what he wanted, and he prepared
his bed for the night. Then he built a little fire in front of the
stump and cooked his supper. He ate some carrots and a turnip sandwich
with peanut butter on it, and the last thing he ate was a large piece
of cherry pie. Then he washed the dishes and, curling up on the soft
leaves, he was soon asleep, dreaming of his little nephew and niece,
Sammie and Susie.

Now, about midnight, the savage alligator, who hadn't had anything to
eat in a long time, started out to find something. And pretty soon he
came to the stump where Uncle Wiggily was sleeping.

"Ah, there is a good meal for me!" cried the skillery-scalery
creature, as he reared up on the end of his double-jointed tail and
put his long nose down in the hollow stump.

"Hey! What's this? Who is it? Has the red monkey come back?" cried the
rabbit, suddenly awakening. "I'm glad to see you, Mr. Monkey. Here is
some cherry pie for you."

And then, being only half awake, Uncle Wiggily took a large piece of
the pie and held it out, thinking he was giving it to the monkey. But
it slipped from his hand and it fell right into the alligator's face.

And the cherry juice ran down into the eyes of the skillery-scalery
creature, and tickled him so that he sneezed, and then he ran away,
for he thought the red monkey might possibly be in the stump, and the
alligator was afraid the monkey might throw hot potatoes down his
throat.

Uncle Wiggily looked out of the stump, and by the light of the silvery
moon he saw the alligator running away, and that was the first time he
knew it was the skillery creature, and not the monkey, who had come in
so suddenly.

"My! That was a narrow escape!" cried the rabbit. "It's a good thing I
took that cherry pie to bed with me. I must be on the watch, for the
alligator may come back." But the skillery-scalery creature, with the
double-jointed tail, didn't return, though Uncle Wiggily didn't sleep
very good the rest of the night on account of being so anxious and
worrying so much.

And in the morning when he awakened from a little nap the old
gentleman rabbit felt very strange. He tried to get up, but he found
that he couldn't. He was as dizzy as if he had been on a
merry-go-round and he felt very ill.

"It must have been the fright the alligator gave me," he thought. "Oh,
dear, what shall I do? Here I am, all alone in this stump in the
woods, and no one to help me. Oh, I'm a poor, forsaken old rabbit, and
nobody loves me! Oh, if Sammie or Susie were only here. I'm sure----"

And just then there was a scratching sound outside the stump.

"Hark! What's that?" whispered the rabbit. "That must be the alligator
coming back to get me! And I can't even get up to throw some cherry
pie at him. Oh, if the red monkey or the black beetle would only
come!"

Then the scratching noise sounded some more, and Uncle Wiggily was
getting so frightened that he didn't know what to do. And then, all of
a sudden, he saw something white at the top hole of the stump, and a
voice exclaimed:

"Well, if there isn't my dear old Uncle Wiggily! And you are ill, I
know you are. I can tell by the way your nose twinkles."

"Indeed, I am ill," said the poor rabbit, "but who are you?" For you
know he couldn't see well, as his glasses had fallen off.

"Oh, I am Kittie Kat," said the voice, and there, surely enough, was
the little pussy girl. She had been away on her summer vacation, and
was just coming back to get ready for school when she happened to walk
through the woods. There she heard a voice in the stump, and, going to
look, she saw Uncle Wiggily.

"Oh, how glad I am to see you, Kittie Kat," said the rabbit.

"And how sorry I am to see you ill," said the pussy girl. "But don't
worry. I'm going to make you well. Just keep quiet."

Then that brave little pussy girl scurried around, and gathered some
leaves from a plant called catnip.

"For," said Kittie, "if catnip is good for cats, it must be good for
rabbits." So she made some hot catnip tea, and gave it to Uncle
Wiggily, and in an hour he was all better and could sit up. Then
Kittie made him some toast with some slices of yellow carrots on it,
and he felt better still, and by noon he was as good as ever.

"But I don't know what I would have done, only for you, Kittie Kat,"
said the rabbit. "Thank you, very much. Now I can travel on and seek
my fortune."

"And I'll come with you," spoke Kittie Kat. So they traveled on
together, and they had an adventure the next day. I'll tell you about
it right away, for the next story will be of Uncle Wiggily and Jennie
Chipmunk--that is, if the green trunk up in the attic doesn't go off
on a vacation all by itself down to Asbury Grove, and hide in the sand
to scare the popcorn man.




"Now, Uncle Wiggily," said Kittie Kat, as she and the old gentleman
rabbit went along, the day after he had been cured by the catnip tea,
"you must take good care of yourself. Keep in the shade, and walk
slowly, for I don't want you to get sick again."

"And I don't want to myself," spoke Uncle Wiggily, "for I want to find
my fortune."

"Oh, I think you will, and very soon," said Kittie. "I dreamed last
night of a pile of gold and diamonds, and I'm sure you will soon be
rich, so that you can come back home, and live with us all again."

"Where was the pile of gold of which you dreamed?" asked the rabbit.
"Was it at the end of the rainbow? Because, if it was, there is no use
to think of it. I once looked there and found nothing."

"No, it wasn't there," said Kittie, shaking her head. "I don't know
where it was because I awakened before my dream was over, but I'm sure
you will soon find your fortune. Now remember to walk slowly, and keep
in the shade."

So she and Uncle Wiggily traveled on and on. Once they came to a big
hill, which they could hardly climb, and they didn't know what to do.
But they happened to meet a friendly mud turtle, who was very strong,
and who had a large, broad shell.

"Get on my back," said the turtle, "and I will take you up the hill. I
go slowly, but I am very sure. You will have time to rest yourselves
while I am climbing up."

So Uncle Wiggily and Kittie Kat got on the turtle's back, and in time
he took them up the hill. Then, after traveling on a little farther,
they came to a broad river.

"Oh, how shall we ever get across?" asked Kittie.

"Perhaps I can make a boat," said the rabbit. He was looking for some
wood and some broad leaves with which to make a sail, when along came
swimming a big goldfish.

"Just perch upon my back," the fish said, "and I will be very glad to
take you across."

"But you swim under water, and we will get all wet," objected Uncle
Wiggily.

"No, I will swim with my back away up out of water," said the
goldfish, and this he did, so that the rabbit and the pussy girl were
taken safely over to the other side of the river and they never even
so much as wet their eyelashes.

"Perhaps I may find my fortune over here," spoke Uncle Wiggily, as he
hopped along after thanking the goldfish. He looked on the ground, and
up in the air, but no fortune could he find.

"There is a little house, made of leaves and bark over there," said
Kittie, pointing through the woods, "let us go and see who is in it."

"Perhaps a bear lives there," said the rabbit.

"It is too small for a bear's house," decided Kittie.

But as they came close to it they heard a scratching noise inside, and
they thought perhaps it might be the fuzzy fox. And then, all of a
sudden, they heard a voice singing this song:

    "I sweep, I sew, I dust, I mend,
      From morning until night.
    And then I wash the plates and cups.
      And scrub the table white.

    "I love to make a pudding,
      Also a pie and cake.
    And when I do my ironing,
      Potatoes do I bake.

    "Now I must hurry--hurry,
      To get a meal for you,
    And then I'll go and gather
      A hickory nut or two."

"Why, I know who that is!" cried Kittie Kat.

"Who?" asked Uncle Wiggily, making his nose twinkle like three stars
and a moon on a frosty night.

"It's Jennie Chipmunk!" cried Kittie. "I just know it is. Oh, Jennie!"
she called. "Is that you?"

"Yes, who is it that wants me?" asked a voice, and out from the tiny
house stepped the little chipmunk girl. She had on her sweeping cap,
and her apron, and in one hand was a cloth and in the other a plate
she was drying.

"Well, well, Jennie, you're as busy as ever, I see!" exclaimed Uncle
Wiggily. "But are you living here?"

"Hush! No," answered Jennie Chipmunk. "I don't live here, but in this
house is a dear old lady squirrel, who is so feeble that she can't get
around and do all her work. So every day I come over and clean up for
her, and get her meals. Oh, I just love to work!" cried Jennie.

"I believe you," spoke the rabbit. "But can't we help?"

"Of course we can," decided Kittie. "You get some wood for the fire,
Uncle Wiggily, and Jennie and I will do the housework."

Then the rabbit and Kittie went in the little house, and Jennie
Chipmunk introduced them to the old lady squirrel, who had to lie down
in bed most of the time.

"Oh, I am very glad to see you," she said in her gentle voice. "I
don't know what I would do without Jennie. She is such a help; aren't
you, Jennie?"

But Jennie wasn't there to answer, for she had skipped out into the
kitchen to finish the dishes, and she was singing away as she hurried
along as happy as a grasshopper.

Then Uncle Wiggily brought in a lot of wood, and with Kittie to help
with the sweeping and dusting, the house was soon as neat as a piece
of apple pie on a Sunday morning.

"Now we must go out and gather some nuts for the old lady squirrel,"
said Jennie.

"What will we carry them in?" asked Kittie.

"Oh, there is a basket for you, and Uncle Wiggily can use his valise,
and as for me," said Jennie, "I have little pockets in each side of my
cheeks, you know." And it's really true, a chipmunk has little pouches
or pockets one on each side of its face. You look the next time you
see one, and notice how a chipmunk's cheeks stick out when it has a
lot of nuts to carry.

So the nuts were soon gathered for the old lady squirrel, and then
Jennie made a cup of tea for Uncle Wiggily and Kittie. And as they sat
in the house drinking it, and talking cheerfully to the old lady
squirrel, all of a sudden the fuzzy old fox came along and tried to
get in. But Uncle Wiggily saw him through the window, and quickly shut
and locked the door.

"Never mind," cried the fox, as he sat down outside and licked his
lips. "I'll wait until you come out, Mr. Rabbit, and then I'll get
you."

"Oh! what shall we do?" cried Kittie Kat in great fright.

"I'll show you," said Jennie Chipmunk. So she took the big dusting
brush down off the nail, and she stuck the brush out of the window,
and she waved it at the fox--waved the brush, not the window you know.

And when that fox saw the fuzzy brush waving, he thought it was the
bushy tail of Old Dog Percival. And the fox was so afraid of dogs that
then and there he gave three separate and distinct howls, and away he
ran as fast as his legs would take him and so Uncle Wiggily and Kittie
Kat could come out.

"My! But you are a smart little girl, Jennie Chipmunk," said the old
gentleman rabbit. "I never would have thought of that."

Then Jennie sang her song again, and made a cherry pie for the rabbit,
and he and Kittie traveled on, and the next day something else
happened. I'll tell you about it right soon, when the story will be of
Uncle Wiggily going berrying; that is, if the peanut man doesn't put a
watermelon in the baby carriage and break the wheels so the rag doll
can't eat her sawdust cake.




"Well, this is a beautiful day," said Kittie Kat, as she and Uncle
Wiggily walked along through the woods one morning.

"Yes, this weather is very nice," agreed the old gentleman rabbit. "I
ought to find my fortune to-day. I have been traveling after it a long
time, and I am getting quite tired."

Kittie Kat looked at him, and she was sorry to see that Uncle Wiggily
appeared quite old. He was bending over as he walked, and he had to go
very slowly, for his rheumatism was quite painful, even though he had
his crutch that Nurse Jane Fuzzy-Wuzzy had made for him out of a
cornstalk.

"Poor old rabbit," thought the pussy girl. "I hope that he finds his
fortune soon, or it will not be of much use to him. I must look as
hard as I can."

So, as they went along Kittie Kat looked under all the stones and
behind the bushes and down in hollow stumps. And once, when she lifted
up a stone with her claws, she saw something glittering under it.

"Oh, here is a diamond!" she cried, but it was only a piece of glass.

And, a little later Uncle Wiggily saw something shining under a big
log. He cried out:

"Oh, joy! I have found some gold." But it was only a shining piece of
tin. They were both much disappointed, but they kept on, still
searching.

At last they came to a house that was built just on the edge of a
deep, dark, dismal wood, and there was some smoke coming from the
chimney of this house.

"I'm going there and ask if they know where I can find my fortune,"
said Uncle Wiggily.

"Better not," spoke Kittie Kat. "There may be a wolf or a fox in
there. Better not."

So Uncle Wiggily looked carefully on the ground all about the little
house, and then he said:

"No, Kittie Kat, a fox or a wolf can't live in here, or I could see
the marks of their feet in the mud. I think a man or a woman lives in
that house, and I am going to knock on the door, for they surely will
be kind to us."

So, with the pussy girl following behind, Uncle Wiggily went up to the
door of the little house, and knocked: "Rat-a-tat-tat!"

"Ha! Who is there?" asked a quivering-quavering voice.

"It is I--Uncle Wiggily Longears, the old gentleman rabbit, and I am
looking for my fortune," he said.

Then the door suddenly opened, and there stood a little old woman, in
a green dress, and she had such a long nose and such a long chin that
they almost touched, and if she had been strong enough she could have
cracked a nut between them.

"Oh, that's an old witch!" cried Kittie Kat.

"Nonsensicalness!" exclaimed Uncle Wiggily. "There are no such things
as witches. Besides, it isn't polite to call names, Kittie Kat."

"Oh, I'm sorry," said the pussy girl, looking at her tail.

"That's all right," said the old lady kindly, and she smiled. And when
she did this she wasn't at all bad looking, but instead, very nice.
"Lots of people think I'm a witch," she said, "and they won't come
near me. But I'm not, and I love boys and girls and animals."

"I am so old, however, that I can't go very far from home, and I would
like to go off in the woods, and get some berries to make a berry pie.
But alas! and alack-a-day! I cannot. But what was it you wanted, Uncle
Wiggily?"

"I wanted to know if you could tell me where to find my fortune," said
the rabbit.

"Yes," answered the old lady in the green dress, "I think I can tell
you where to find your fortune. If you will travel on for three days
more you will come to a little hill. Go up this hill, and down the
other side, and there, at the bottom, you will find your fortune."

"Oh, joy!" cried the rabbit gentleman.

"How lovely!" exclaimed Kittie Kat. "Oh, how glad I am. Let's start
off at once, Uncle Wiggily."

"No, not at once," said the old gentleman rabbit. "First I must do a
kindness to this good old lady. I heard you say you would like some
berries," he went on, "so I will go and get them."

"And I will come also," said Kittie Kat.

"It is very kind of you," spoke the old lady with the long nose and
the pointed chin. So she gave them a basket in which to put the
berries, and away went Uncle Wiggily and the pussy girl.

Soon they came to where there were a whole lot of bushes and they
began picking the berries. The basket was almost full, and the rabbit
was wondering if the lady would give him some of the berry pie after
she made it, when, all of a sudden, there was a rustling in the bushes
and out sprang a savage wolf.

"Ah, ha!" he growled, as he showed his sharp teeth, "now I have you
both! Oh, what a good meal I will have!"

"Oh, please do not eat us!" begged the rabbit. "I am just about to
find my fortune; can't you wait until after that?"

"No!" growled the wolf. Then he crouched down, ready for a spring.
Uncle Wiggily and Kittie Kat were too frightened to move. They looked
all around for help, but all they could see were the berry bushes. And
one bush seemed redder than the others. In fact, it was as red as red
ink, and, as the rabbit looked at it this bush seemed to move.

"Here I come!" cried the wolf, and he jumped up into the air. But, as
he did so the very red bush seemed to leap also, and then this bush
grabbed the wolf by his tail, swung him around and around and tossed
him away up in the top of a tall tree.

"There! I'll teach you to play tricks on Uncle Wiggily," cried a
voice, and then the red bush came over to the rabbit, and instead of
being a bush it was the red monkey, and he had come along just in time
to save the rabbit and the pussy. You see he looked so much like a
berry bush, as he crouched down, that the wolf didn't know him, and
neither did Uncle Wiggily.

"Well, this is a joyful surprise!" cried the rabbit, as he and Kittie
Kat thanked the red monkey. "I'm glad to see you once more."

Then the wolf ran howling away through the woods, and the monkey
helped the rabbit and the pussy girl to fill the basket with berries
and they took them to the old lady, who made a pie as big as the wash
basin.

And the next day the rabbit started off after the gold and diamonds.
And, in case the lead pencil doesn't crawl up the white wall and make
a funny picture of a man riding on an elephant, I'll tell you next
about Uncle Wiggily finding his fortune.



The little old lady in the green dress, whose nose and chin nearly
touched, was very glad to get the berries which Uncle Wiggily and
Kittie Kat gathered. She was very sorry that the wolf had frightened
them, but she thought it was just fine of the red monkey to come along
when he did.

"And I just wish you could have seen him toss the wolf over the
tree-tops by his tail," said the old gentleman rabbit. "It was as good
as going to the circus."

"Well, for doing such a trick, the red monkey can have two pieces of
my berry pie," spoke the little old woman in the green dress. And that
red monkey was very, very thankful, and he ate the two pieces of pie,
even down to the last drop of juice.

Illustration: Uncle Wiggily's Fortune

Of course the rabbit gentleman and Kittie Kat had some pie too, and,
after they had eaten their share, and had washed their faces and paws
they stayed at the house of the little old woman all night.

"For I want Uncle Wiggily to be nice and rested so he can start off
after his fortune to-morrow," she said.

Well, the next morning the rabbit gentleman got ready to go. The old
lady with the green dress filled his valise full of good things to
eat, including some berry pie, for there were no more cherries now,
you know. Then, with Kittie Kat on one side of him and the red monkey
on the other side, Uncle Wiggily set off.

"Remember," called the old lady, as she said good-by, "you must travel
straight on for three days, and you needn't stop on the way to look
for your fortune, for you won't find it. Just keep on, and at the end
of the third day you will come to a hill. Go up the hill, and down the
other side, and you will then come into your fortune, and I hope you
will live for a good many years to enjoy it."

"Thank you so much!" exclaimed the rabbit. "It hardly seems possible
that I am going to be rich after all my travels. What kind of a
fortune will it be?"

"Oh, you must wait and see," said the kind little old lady.

Well, the rabbit and the pussy girl and the red monkey traveled on and
on. The first day they came to a big mountain, and the monkey wanted
to climb up it to see if there were any cocoanut trees growing on the
top.

"No," Uncle Wiggily told him. "We must keep straight on the level road
until we come to the hill." And it is a good thing they didn't climb
that mountain. For on top lived a big giant who had a big club, and he
might have hit the red monkey with it. Mind, I'm not saying for sure,
but that might have happened, you know.

So the three friends traveled on and on, and at the second day they
came to where there was a big ball of blue yarn beside a little lake.
It was a nice, soft ball of yarn, such as kittens play with when
grandma is knitting warm mittens for winter.

"Oh, I must stop and play with that ball of yarn," said Kittie Kat.

"No," said the rabbit, "you must not do that, for the old lady said we
were to keep straight on for three days."

And it is a good thing Kittie Kat didn't roll the ball, for inside of
it was a big rat, and he might have bitten the little pussy girl.
Mind, I'm not saying for sure, but that might have happened.

"Now, this is the third day," spoke Uncle Wiggily when they got up one
morning, after having slept in a hollow stump. "By nightfall we ought
to come to the hill, and on the other side will be my fortune. Oh, how
glad I am!"

So they kept on and on, stopping for dinner in a nice shady place, and
toward evening they came to the hill.

"There it is!" cried the rabbit as he hurried up it. "Oh, I can hardly
wait until I get to the other side."

Up he went, and up went the red monkey and up went Kittie Kat. And on
the way the bad fuzzy fox sprang out from the bushes and tried to
catch them, but Uncle Wiggily tickled him with his crutch and made him
sneeze and fall down hill.

Then they came to the top of the hill. The sun was just setting in the
clouds, and they were all colored golden and violet and purple, and
oh, it was beautiful! Uncle Wiggily came to a stop. On one side was
the red monkey and on the other the pussy girl. The rabbit rubbed his
eyes. Then he took off his glasses and polished them on his
handkerchief. Then he looked down the hill.

"Why--why!" exclaimed Uncle Wiggily. "There must be some mistake. I
don't see any gold or diamonds. And this place--why, it's the very
place I started away from so many weeks ago! There is where I
live--there is where Sammie and Susie Littletail live--that's the tree
where Johnnie and Billie Bushytail live, and there is the pond where
Alice and Lulu and Jimmie Wibblewobble, the ducks, live! This is home!
There can't be a fortune here!"

Oh, how disappointed he felt. The sun sank lower behind the clouds and
made them more golden and green and purple.

Then out from their homes ran the rabbit children and the squirrel
brothers and the duck children, and Peetie, and Jackie Bow-Wow, and
Bully the Frog, and his brother, and Dottie and Munchie Trot, and
Buddy and Brighteyes Pigg--and all the others.

"Oh, here is Uncle Wiggily! Our Uncle Wiggily has come back!" they
cried, leaping about in joy. "Oh, how glad we are to see you. Happy!
Happy welcome! You are rich, Uncle Wiggily! Rich! Very rich!"

"Rich!" said the rabbit, rubbing his eyes and trying to stand up while
all his friends gathered around him. "But I don't understand. The
little old lady in the green dress said I would find my fortune here,
but I don't see it."

"Let me explain," said Sammie Littletail. "Do you see that field of
cabbage, Uncle Wiggily?" and the rabbit boy pointed to it.

"Yes," said the rabbit, "I see the field."

"There are seventeen million, two hundred and fifty-six thousand, nine
hundred and three cabbages there," said Sammie, "and they are all
yours. And do you see that field of turnips?"

"Yes," said Uncle Wiggily, as he looked down the hill, "I see them."

"There are nineteen million, four hundred and thirty-three thousand,
eight hundred and sixty-six turnips," said Sammie, "and they are all
yours. And do you see that field of carrots?"

"I do," said Uncle Wiggily, but he couldn't see so very far, as tears
of joy were in his eyes.

"There are one hundred million, eight hundred and twenty-three
thousand nine hundred and ninety-nine and a half carrots in that
field," said Sammie. "Jillie Longtail, the mouse, had the half carrot
because she was ill, but all the rest are yours, and you are the
richest rabbit in the world--the very richest--there is your fortune.
You can sell the turnips and carrots and cabbages and have
forty-'leven barrels of gold."

"But--but I don't understand," said Uncle Wiggily, as he tried to hug
all his friends at once.

"It was this way," said Sammie, "when you were gone we all planted
things in your garden and fields for you, and we took care of them,
hoeing and watering them, until they grew as never carrots or turnips
or cabbages grew before. So now you have come back to us, and you are
rich."

And it was true. After traveling almost around the earth in search of
his fortune, Uncle Wiggily came back to find it right at home, and
that's the way it often happens in this world.

Well, you can imagine how surprised he was. He hugged and kissed all
his friends and then he went into his old house with Sammie and Susie
Littletail, and when he had sold the cabbages and carrots and turnips
for many barrels of gold, there he lived for many, many years, as
happy an old gentleman rabbit as you could find in a day's journey.
And though his rheumatism bothered him at times it couldn't be helped.
And he gave all his friends as much money as they wanted, and they all
had good times together, and lots of fun, and every once in a while
Uncle Wiggily would treat everybody to strawberry ice-cream cones with
cabbage or turnip sauce on.

And now I have come to the end of this book. But I still have some
more stories about the old gentleman rabbit in my typewriter, in case
you would like to hear them. And I am going to put them in another
volume to be called "Uncle Wiggily's Automobile."

In that machine he had the most surprising adventures of which you
ever heard. Why, once the doodle-oodle-um got twisted around the
tinker-um-tankerum, and again the noodle-oodle-um wouldn't go, and he
had to give it a drink of molasses. And again the snicker-snoozicum
got the toothache. But Uncle Wiggily didn't mind, and he traveled many
miles in his auto. I'll tell you all that happened, so don't worry,
but go to sleep and in the morning the sun may be shining. So I'm
going to say good-by for a little while, and I wish you all happy
dreams.




                             




                      

